1. Curr Med Chem. 2024 Apr 3. doi: 10.2174/0109298673304111240325062717. Online 
ahead of print.

Urinary miRNAs and Prostate Cancer: Is there a Crossover Point Eventually, and 
where should we Head?

Giannakodimos I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Laikon 
General Hospital, Greece.

DOI: 10.2174/0109298673304111240325062717
PMID: 38571346


2. J Cancer Res Ther. 2024 Jan 1;20(1):297-303. doi: 10.4103/jcrt.jcrt_1469_22. 
Epub 2023 Apr 6.

Prognostic microRNAs as biomarkers for prostate cancer.

Palanisamy H(1), Manoharan JP, Vidyalakshmi S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, PSG College of Technology, Coimbatore Tamil 
Nadu, India.

OBJECTIVE: Prostate cancer is the second largest cancer, most commonly diagnosed in men. Several studies reveal that miRNAs (microRNAs) are involved in various stages of prostate cancer. miRNAs are a family of small non-coding RNA species that have been implicated in the post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression. The present in silico study aims at identifying miRNA biomarkers that are significantly associated with the regulation of genes involved in prostate cancer.
METHODS: Dataset of miRNA and mRNA of prostate adenocarcinoma patients and controls was downloaded from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), and differential gene expression analysis was carried out. ROC and Kaplan-Meier survival analyses were performed on differentially expressed miRNAs. Pathway analysis was carried out for significant miRNAs, and protein-protein interaction of involved genes and miRNAs was examined.
RESULTS: A total of 185 miRNAs were differentially expressed between the patients and the control. ROC and Kaplan-Meier survival analysis showed that the two miRNAs hsa-mir-133b and hsa-mir-17-5p were found to be significantly associated with prostate cancer prognosis. HAS2 and EPHA10 gene targets of identified miRNA were also differentially expressed. A protein-protein interaction (PPI) network was constructed, and the HAS2 gene was found to be interacting with the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR).
CONCLUSION: This study highlights the potential of hsa-mir-133b and hsa-mir-17-5p miRNAs as biomarkers for the prognosis of prostate cancer. However, further experimental studies are required to validate this finding.

Copyright © 2023 Copyright: © 2023 Journal of Cancer Research and Therapeutics.

DOI: 10.4103/jcrt.jcrt_1469_22
PMID: 38554337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Curr Issues Mol Biol. 2024 Mar 11;46(3):2263-2277. doi: 10.3390/cimb46030145.

Genetic Signatures for Distinguishing Chemo-Sensitive from Chemo-Resistant 
Responders in Prostate Cancer Patients.

Gumenku L(1), Sekhoacha M(2), Abrahams B(3), Mashele S(1), Shoko A(4), 
Erukainure OL(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, Central University of Technology, Bloemfontein 
9300, South Africa.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, University of the Free State, Bloemfontein 9300, 
South Africa.
(3)Department of Basic Medical Sciences, University of the Free State, 
Bloemfontein 9300, South Africa.
(4)Centre for Proteomics and Genomics Research, Cape Town 7925, South Africa.
(5)Laser Research Center, University of Johannesburg, Doornfontein 2028, South 
Africa.

Prostate cancer remains a significant public health concern in sub-Saharan 
Africa, particularly impacting South Africa with high mortality rates. Despite 
many years of extensive research and significant financial expenditure, there 
has yet to be a definitive solution to prostate cancer. It is not just 
individuals who vary in their response to treatment, but even different nodules 
within the same tumor exhibit unique transcriptome patterns. These distinctions 
extend beyond mere differences in gene expression levels to encompass the 
control and networking of individual genes. Escalating chemotherapy resistance 
in prostate cancer patients has prompted increased research into its underlying 
mechanisms. The heterogeneous nature of transcriptomic organization among men 
makes the pursuit of universal biomarkers and one-size-fits-all treatments 
impractical. This study delves into the expression of drug resistance-associated 
genes, ABCB1 and CYP1B1, in cancer cells. Employing bioinformatics, we explored 
the molecular pathways and cascades linked to drug resistance following 
upregulation of these genes. Samples were obtained from archived prostate cancer 
patient specimens through pre-treatment biopsies of two categories: good vs. 
poor responders, with cDNAs synthesized from isolated RNAs subjected to qPCR 
analysis. The results revealed increased ABCB1 and CYP1B1 expression in tumor 
samples of the poor responders. Gene enrichment and network analysis associated 
ABCB1 with ABC transporters and LncRNA-mediated therapeutic resistance (WP3672), 
while CYP1B1 was linked to ovarian steroidogenesis, tryptophan metabolism, 
steroid hormone biosynthesis, benzo(a)pyrene metabolism, the sulindac metabolic 
pathway, and the estrogen receptor pathway, which are associated with drug 
resistance. Both ABCB1 and CYP1B1 correlated with microRNAs in cancer and the 
Nuclear Receptors Meta-Pathway. STRING analysis predicted protein-protein 
interactions of ABCB1 and CYP1B1 with Glutathione S-transferase Pi, Catechol 
O-methyltransferase, UDP-glucuronosyltransferase 1-6, Leucine-rich Transmembrane 
and O-methyltransferase (LRTOMT), and Epoxide hydrolase 1, with scores of 0.973, 
0.971, 0.966, 0.966, and 0.966, respectively. Furthermore, molecular docking 
analysis of the chemotherapy drug, docetaxel, with CYP1B1 and ABCB1 revealed 
robust molecular interactions, with binding energies of -20.37 and -15.25 
Kcal/mol, respectively. These findings underscore the susceptibility of cancer 
patients to drug resistance due to increased ABCB1 and CYP1B1 expression in 
tumor samples from patients in the poor-responders category that affects 
associated molecular pathways. The potent molecular interactions of ABCB1 and 
CYP1B1 with docetaxel further emphasize the potential basis for chemotherapy 
resistance.

DOI: 10.3390/cimb46030145
PMCID: PMC10969469
PMID: 38534761

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


4. J Cancer. 2024 Mar 2;15(8):2306-2317. doi: 10.7150/jca.92379. eCollection 2024.

MiR-15b-3p weakens bicalutamide sensitivity in prostate cancer via targeting 
KLF2 to suppress ferroptosis.

Zhang C(1)(2), Yu H(1)(2), Bai X(1)(2), Zhou X(1)(2), Feng Z(1)(2), Li Y(1)(2), 
Peng X(1)(2), Mei Y(1)(2), Li L(1)(2), Gou X(1), Deng Y(1), Chen G(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing, China.
(2)Chongqing Key Laboratory of Molecular Oncology and Epigenetics, Chongqing, 
China.

Bicalutamide (BIC) resistance impedes the treatment of prostate cancer (PCa) and 
seems to involve ferroptosis; however, the underlying mechanism remains unclear. 
Our study aimed to explore how miR-15b-3p modulates ferroptosis in response to 
BIC resistance and determine whether the miRNA is suitable for early screening 
of PCa. Here, we found that PCa tissues had significantly higher miR-15b-3p 
expression than adjacent normal tissues. Analysis of blood samples in patients 
who underwent prostate-specific antigen (PSA) screening revealed that miR-15b-3p 
was a more accurate diagnostic than PSA (miR-15b-3p area under the curve [AUC] = 
0.941, PSA AUC = 0.815). In vitro experiments then demonstrated that miR-15b-3p 
expression was markedly higher in LNCaP, PC-3, and DU145 cells than in RWPE-1 
cells. Treatment with BIC decreased miR-15b-3p expression and progressive 
ferroptosis. Mechanistically, we identified KLF2 as the downstream target of 
miR-15b-3p. Overexpressing KLF2 facilitated ferroptosis via augmenting MDA and 
iron concentrations, in turn inhibiting the SLC7A11/GPX4 axis and decreasing GSH 
concentration. Through modulating ferroptosis, miR-15b-3p mimic and inhibitor 
weakened and enhanced BIC sensitivity, respectively. Furthermore, BIC treatment 
limited xenograft tumor volume in vivo, whereas agomir-15b-3p promoted tumor 
growth, indicating that miR-15b-3p attenuated the tumor-suppressive effects of 
BIC. Taken together, our results suggested that miR-15b-3p is crucial to BIC 
resistance, specifically via targeting KLF2 and thereby suppressing ferroptosis. 
High miR-15b-3p expression in early PCa screening should reflect a higher 
probability of cancer. In conclusion, miR-15b-3p has strong potential as a 
screening and diagnostic biomarker with reliable prospects for clinical 
application. Furthermore, because patients with high miR-15b-3p and low KLF2 
expression have a greater risk of BIC resistance and malignant progression, 
targeting the miRNA and its downstream protein may be a new treatment strategy.

© The author(s).

DOI: 10.7150/jca.92379
PMCID: PMC10937263
PMID: 38495481

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interest exists.


5. Transl Cancer Res. 2024 Feb 29;13(2):686-698. doi: 10.21037/tcr-23-1313. Epub 
2024 Feb 23.

The value of a panel of circulating microRNAs in screening prostate cancer.

Sun C(#)(1)(2), Lu C(#)(1)(2), Li X(1)(3), Li R(1)(2), Wen Z(1)(3), Ge Z(1)(3), 
Chen W(1)(3), Li Y(1)(4), Sun S(1), Yang Q(1), Tao L(1), Li H(1), Lai Y(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Peking University Shenzhen Hospital, Institute of 
Urology, Shenzhen Peking University-The Hong Kong University of Science and 
Technology Medical Center, the fifth Clinical Medical College of Anhui Medical 
University, Shenzhen, China.
(2)The Fifth Clinical Medical College of Anhui Medical University, Hefei, China.
(3)Shantou University Medical College, Shantou, China.
(4)Shenzhen University School of Medicine, Shenzhen, China.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Prostate cancer (PCa) remains a worldwide public health problem that 
poses a serious threat to the health of men worldwide. Many studies have found 
that microRNA (miRNA) in serum has the potential to be a biomarker for cancer 
screening. Our study was conducted to investigate the value of serum miRNAs in 
PCa screening.
METHODS: We selected 12 miRNAs from past studies for its association with PCa. 
We checked the expression levels of these miRNAs in the serum of 112 PCa 
patients and 112 healthy controls in a two-stage experiment. We plotted the 
receiver operating characteristic curve of miRNAs in the validation stage and 
constructed a four-miRNA panel with the highest diagnostic value using stepwise 
logistic regression. We also predicted the target genes with these four miRNAs 
through online databases and performed Gene Ontology functional annotation and 
pathway analysis.
RESULTS: The results showed that six miRNAs (miR-429, miR-10a-5p, miR-183-5p, 
miR-181a-5p, miR-1231, miR-129-5p) were abnormally expressed in the serum of PCa 
patients. We used four of these miRNAs including miR-1231, miR-10a-5p, miR-429 
and miR-129-5p to construct a combination of miRNAs with high specificity and 
sensitivity in screening PCa (area under the curve =0.878). Bioinformatics 
analysis showed that the genes targeted by these miRNAs can be linked to the 
development of PCa.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study detected and identified a set of miRNAs that serves as 
screening marker for PCa, which may assist in early diagnosis and treatment of 
PCa.

2024 Translational Cancer Research. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.21037/tcr-23-1313
PMCID: PMC10928619
PMID: 38482417

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: All authors have 
completed the ICMJE uniform disclosure form (available at 
https://tcr.amegroups.com/article/view/10.21037/tcr-23-1313/coif). The authors 
have no conflicts of interest to declare.


6. Environ Toxicol. 2024 Mar 11. doi: 10.1002/tox.24181. Online ahead of print.

In silico investigation of the role of miRNAs in a possible developmental origin 
of prostate cancer in F1 and F2 offspring of mothers exposed to a phthalate 
mixture.

Aquino AM(1), Fioretto MN(1), Alonso-Costa LG(1), Rocha VA(1), Souza PV(1), 
Magosso N(1), Barbisan LF(1), Justulin LA(1), Flaws JA(2), Scarano WR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Structural and Functional Biology, Institute of Biosciences, 
Sao Paulo State University (UNESP), Botucatu, São Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Department of Comparative Biosciences, University of Illinois at 
Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois, USA.

A previous study using miRNA sequencing revealed that exposure to a mixture of 
phthalates during pregnancy and lactation dysregulated rno-miR-184 and 
rno-miR-141-3p in the ventral prostate (VP) of offspring. Here, rno-miR-184 and 
rno-miR-141-3 expressions were obtained by RT-qPCR in the VP of F1 males as well 
as in F2 offspring, aiming to establish a relationship with possible oncogenic 
targets through in silico analyses with multigenerational approach. 
Additionally, some targets were measured by western blots to highlight a 
possible relationship between the deregulated miRNAs and some of their targets. 
VP samples from rats exposed to a mixture of phthalates maternally during 
pregnancy and lactation (GD10 to PND21-F1) and VP from offspring (F2) were 
examined. The phthalate mixture at both concentrations (20 μg and 200 mg/kg/day) 
increased the expression of both miRNAs in the F1 (PND22 and 120) and F2 
(descendants of F1-treated males) prostate. Target prediction analysis revealed 
that both microRNAs are responsible for modulating the expression and synthesis 
of 40 common targets. A phthalate target association analysis and the HPA 
database showed an interesting relationship among these possible miRNAs 
modulated targets with prostate adenocarcinoma and other oncogenic processes. 
Western blots showed alteration in P63, P53, WNT5, and STAT3 expression, which 
are targeted by the miRNAs, in the VP of F1/F2 males. The data draw attention to 
the epigenetic modulation in the prostate of descendants exposed to phthalates 
and adds to one of the few currently found in the literature to point to 
microRNAs signature as biomarkers of exposure to plasticizers.

© 2024 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/tox.24181
PMID: 38465474


7. J Biochem Mol Toxicol. 2024 Feb;38(2):e23645. doi: 10.1002/jbt.23645.

Curcumin inhibits prostate cancer by upregulating miR-483-3p and inhibiting 
UBE2C.

Li W(1)(2)(3), Wang F(1)(2)(3), Wang X(4), Xu W(1)(2)(3), Liu F(1)(2)(3), Hu 
R(1)(2)(3), Li S(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Translational Medicine, Medical College, Yangzhou University, 
Yangzhou, Jiangsu, PR China.
(2)Jiangsu Key Laboratory of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western Medicine 
for Prevention and Treatment of Senile Diseases, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou, 
Jiangsu, PR China.
(3)Sino-Malaysia Molecular Oncology and Traditional Chinese Medicine Delivery 
Joint Research Centre, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou, Jiangsu, PR China.
(4)Department of Urinary Surgery, The Affiliated Hospital of Yangzhou 
University, Yangzhou University, Yangzhou, Jiangsu, PR China.

Prostate cancer (PCa) is an extremely common genitourinary malignancy among 
elderly men. Many evidence have shown the efficacy of curcumin (CUR) in 
inhibiting the progression of PCa. However, the pharmacological function of CUR 
in PCa is still not quite clear. In this research, CUR was found to suppress the 
proliferation and enhance the apoptotic rate in in vitro PCa cell models in a 
dose- and time-dependent manner. In a xenograft animal model, the administration 
of CUR contributed to a significant decrease in the growth of the xenograft 
tumor induced by the transplanted PC-3 cells. Ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme E2 C 
is implicated in the modulation of multiple types of cancers. In humans, the 
expression levels of UBE2C are significantly higher in PCa versus benign 
prostatic hyperplasia. Treatment with CUR decreased the expression of UBE2C, 
whereas it increased miR-483-3p expression. In contrast with the control mice, 
the CUR-treated mice showed a significant reduction in UBE2C and Ki-67 in PCa 
cells. The capability of proliferation, migration, and invasion of PCa cells was 
inhibited by the knockdown of UBE2C mediated by siRNA. Furthermore, dual 
luciferase reporter gene assay indicated the binding of miR-483-3p to UBE2C. In 
summary, CUR exerts its antitumor effects through regulation of the 
miR-483-3p/UBE2C axis by decreasing UBE2C and increasing miR-483-3p. The 
findings may also provide new molecular markers for PCa diagnosis and treatment.

© 2024 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jbt.23645
PMID: 38348716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Exp Oncol. 2024 Feb 3;45(4):432-442. doi: 10.15407/exp-oncology.2023.04.432.

TUMOR MICROENVIRONMENT-ASSOCIATED miR-7-5p, miR-19a-3p, AND miR-23b-3p 
EXPRESSION IN PROSTATE CANCER WITH DIFFERENT PROGRESSION RISK.

Borikun T(1), Mushii O(1), Pavlova A(1), Burda T(1), Zadvornyi T(2).

Author information:
(1)R.E. Kavetsky Institute of Experimental Pathology, Oncology, and 
Radiobiology, NAS of Ukraine, Kyiv, Ukraine.
(2)R.E. Kavetsky Institute of Experimental Pathology, Oncology, and 
Radiobiology, NAS of Ukraine, Kyiv, Ukraine. tito132007@ukr.net.

BACKGROUND: The tumor microenvironment (TME) plays an important role in the 
occurrence and progression of prostate cancer (PCa). At the same time, the 
mechanisms and features of the interaction between tumor cells and individual 
components of the TME in PCa remain not fully elucidated. The aim was to study 
the expression levels of tumor-associated miR-7-5p, miR-19a-3p, and miR-23b-3p 
in the PCa tissue and to analyze their relationship with the features of TME.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The work is based on the analysis of the results of the 
examination and treatment of 50 patients with PCa of stages II-IV. The 
expression of miRNA in the PCa tissue was analyzed by the real-time polymerase 
chain reaction. The expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin (α-SMA), vimentin 
(VIM), and CD68 in PCa tissue was determined by the immunohistochemical method. 
The identification of mast cells in the PCa tissue was assessed by the 
histochemical method.
RESULTS: The analysis of the expression levels of tumor-associated miRNAs 
demonstrated that the tumor tissue of patients with a high risk of PCa 
progression was characterized by 4.93 (p < 0.01) and 8.97 (p < 0.05) times 
higher levels of miR-19a-3p and miR-23b-3p, respectively, compared to similar 
indicators in the group of patients with a low risk of PCa progression. The 
levels of miR-7-5p and miR-19a-3p expression in the PCa tissue correlated with 
the expression level of α-SMA (r = 0.49 and r = 0.45, respectively; p < 0.05) 
and VIM (r = 0.45 and r = 0.46; respectively, p < 0.05). A direct relationship 
(r = 0.44; p < 0.05) was established between the level of miR-7-5p expression 
and the degree of infiltration of the prostate gland tissue by tumor-associated 
macrophages.
CONCLUSIONS: The features of the expression of tumor-associated miR-7-5p, 
miR-19a-3p, and miR-23b-3p indicated the prospect of their use as markers of the 
aggressiveness of the PCa course.

DOI: 10.15407/exp-oncology.2023.04.432
PMID: 38328847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Eur J Med Res. 2024 Jan 31;29(1):92. doi: 10.1186/s40001-024-01672-3.

Identification and validation of an individualized metabolic prognostic 
signature for predicting the biochemical recurrence of prostate cancer based on 
the immune microenvironment.

Hu B(1), Zhang X(2), Zhu S(1), Wang C(1), Deng Z(1), Wang T(#)(3)(4), Wu 
Y(#)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei, China.
(2)School of Nursing, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and 
Technology, Wuhan, Hubei, China.
(3)Department of Urology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei, China. tjhwt@126.com.
(4)Shenzhen Huazhong University of Science and Technology Research Institute, 
Shenzhen, Guangdong, China. tjhwt@126.com.
(5)Department of Urology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, Hubei, China. wuyuetjm@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Prostate cancer (PCa) is the most prevalent genitourinary malignancy 
in men, with a significant proportion of patients developing biochemical 
recurrence (BCR) after treatment. The immune microenvironment and metabolic 
alterations have crucial implications for the tumorigenesis and progression of 
PCa. Therefore, identifying metabolic genes associated with the immune 
microenvironment holds promise for predicting BCR and improving PCa prognosis.
METHODS: In this study, ssGSEA and hierarchical clustering analysis were first 
conducted to evaluate and group PCa samples, followed by the use of the ESTIMATE 
and CIBERSORT algorithms to characterize the immunophenotypes and tumor 
microenvironment. The differential metabolic genes (MTGs) between groups were 
utilized to develop a prognostic-related signature. The predictive performance 
of the signature was assessed by principal component analysis (PCA), receiver 
operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis, survival analysis, and the TIDE 
algorithm. A miRNA-MTGs regulatory network and predictive nomogram were 
constructed. Moreover, the expression of prognostic MTGs in PCa was detected by 
RT‒qPCR.
RESULTS: PCa samples from the TCGA cohort were separated into two groups: the 
immune-low group and immune-high group. Forty-eight differentially expressed 
MTGs between the groups were identified, including 37 up-regulated and 11 
down-regulated MTGs. Subsequently, CEL, CYP3A4, and PDE6G were identified as the 
genes most strongly associated with the BCR of PCa patients and these genes were 
utilized to establish the MTGs-based prognostic signatures. PCA, ROC curves 
analysis, Kaplan-Meier survival analysis, and the nomogram all showed the good 
predictive ability of the signature regardless of clinical variables. 
Furthermore, the MTGs-based signature was indicated as a potential predictive 
biomarker for immunotherapy response. Nine miRNAs involved in the regulation of 
prognostic MTGs were determined. In addition to the CEL gene, the PDE6G and 
CYP3A4 genes were expressed at higher levels in PCa samples.
CONCLUSIONS: The MTGs-based signature represents a novel approach with promising 
potential for predicting BCR in PCa patients.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s40001-024-01672-3
PMCID: PMC10829481
PMID: 38297388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


10. Anal Chem. 2024 Feb 6;96(5):2217-2226. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.3c05287. Epub 
2024 Jan 23.

Intracellular MicroRNA Imaging and Specific Discrimination of Prostate Cancer 
Circulating Tumor Cells Using Multifunctional Gold Nanoprobe-Based 
Thermophoretic Assay.

Luo S(1), Meng X(1), Xu LP(1), Zhang X(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Beijing Key Laboratory for Bioengineering and Sensing Technology Research 
Centre for Bioengineering and Sensing Technology, School of Chemistry and 
Biological Engineering, University of Science and Technology Beijing, Beijing 
100083, P. R. China.
(2)Marshall Laboratory of Biomedical Engineering, Precision Medicine and Health 
Research Institute, Shenzhen Key Laboratory for Nano-Biosensing Technology, 
School of Biomedical Engineering, Shenzhen University Medical School, Shenzhen 
University, Guangdong 518060, P. R. China.

Circulating tumor cells (CTCs) have emerged as powerful biomarkers for diagnosis 
of prostate cancer. However, the effective identification and concurrently 
accurate imaging of CTCs for early screening of prostate cancer have been rarely 
explored. Herein, we reported a multifunctional gold nanoprobe-based 
thermophoretic assay for simultaneous specific distinguishing of prostate cancer 
CTCs and sensitive imaging of intracellular microRNA (miR-21), achieving the 
rapid and precise detection of prostate cancer. The multifunctional gold 
nanoprobe (GNP-DNA/Ab) was modified by two types of prostate-specific 
antibodies, anti-PSMA and anti-EpCAM, which could effectively recognize the 
targeting CTCs, and meanwhile linked double-stranded DNA for further visually 
imaging intracellular miR-21. Upon the specific internalization of GNP-DNA/Ab by 
PC-3 cells, target aberrant miR-21 could displace the signal strand to recover 
the fluorescence signal for sensitive detection at the single-cell level, 
achieving single PC-3 cell imaging benefiting from the thermophoresis-mediated 
signal amplification procedure. Taking advantage of the sensitive miR-21 imaging 
performance, GNP-DNA/Ab could be employed to discriminate the PC-3 and Jurkat 
cells because of the different expression levels of miR-21. Notably, PC-3 cells 
were efficiently recognized from white blood cells, exhibiting promising 
potential for the early diagnosis of prostate cancer. Furthermore, GNP-DNA/Ab 
possessed good biocompatibility and stability. Therefore, this work provides a 
great tool for aberrant miRNA-related detection and specific discrimination of 
CTCs, achieving the early and accurate diagnosis of prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.3c05287
PMID: 38262909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Int J Mol Sci. 2023 Dec 29;25(1):489. doi: 10.3390/ijms25010489.

GLIS1, Correlated with Immune Infiltrates, Is a Potential Prognostic Biomarker 
in Prostate Cancer.

Peng Q(1), Xie T(1), Wang Y(1), Ho VW(1), Teoh JY(1), Chiu PK(1), Ng CF(1).

Author information:
(1)SH Ho Urology Centre, Department of Surgery, The Chinese University of Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong, China.

Prostate cancer (PCa) is a prevalent malignant disease and the primary reason 
for cancer-related mortality among men globally. GLIS1 (GLIS family zinc finger 
1) is a key regulator in various pathologies. However, the expression pattern, 
clinical relevance, and immunomodulatory function of GLIS1 in PCa remain 
unclear. In this study, GLIS1 was discovered to serve as a key gene in PCa by 
integrating mRNA and miRNA expression profiles from GEO database. We 
systematically explored the expression and prognostic values of GLIS1 in cancers 
using multiple databases. Additionally, we examined the functions of GLIS1 and 
the relationship between GLIS1 expression levels and immune infiltration in PCa. 
Results showed that GLIS1 was differentially expressed between normal and tumor 
tissues in various cancer types and was significantly low-expressed in PCa. Low 
GLIS1 expression was associated with poor PCa prognosis. GLIS1 was also involved 
in the activation, proliferation, differentiation, and migration of immune 
cells, and its expression showed a positive correlation with the infiltration of 
various immune cells. Moreover, GLIS1 expression was positively associated with 
various chemokines/chemokine receptors, indicating the involvement in regulating 
immune cell migration. In summary, GLIS1 is a potential prognostic biomarker and 
a therapeutic target to modulate anti-tumor immune response in PCa.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms25010489
PMCID: PMC10779070
PMID: 38203661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


12. Cancers (Basel). 2023 Dec 21;16(1):48. doi: 10.3390/cancers16010048.

miR-410 Is a Key Regulator of Epithelial-to-Mesenchymal Transition with Biphasic 
Role in Prostate Cancer.

Asante DM(1), Sreekumar A(1), Nathani S(1), Lee TJ(2), Sharma A(2), Patel N(3), 
Simmons MN(4), Saini S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Augusta University, 
Augusta, GA 30912, USA.
(2)Department of Center for Biotechnology and Genomic Medicine, Augusta 
University, Augusta, GA 30912, USA.
(3)Department of Pathology, Augusta University, Augusta, GA 30912, USA.
(4)Department of Urology, Augusta University, Augusta, GA 30912, USA.

The molecular basis of prostate cancer (PCa) progression from the primary 
disease to metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) followed by 
therapy-induced neuroendocrine prostate cancer is not fully understood. In this 
study, we elucidate the role of miR-410, a little-studied microRNA located on 
chromosome 14q32.31 within the DLK1-DIO3 cluster, in PCa. miR-410 expression 
analyses in primary and metastatic PCa tissues and cell lines show that its 
levels are decreased in initial stages and increased in advanced PCa. Functional 
studies were performed in a series of PCa cell lines. In LNCaP cells, miR-410 
overexpression led to decreases in cellular viability, proliferation, 
invasiveness, and migration. On the other hand, miR-410 overexpression in PC3 
and C42B cells led to increased viability, proliferation, and invasiveness. Our 
data suggest that miR-410 represses epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) 
in LNCaP cells by directly repressing SNAIL. However, it promotes EMT and 
upregulates PI3K/Akt signaling in PC3 and C42B cells. In vivo studies with PC3 
xenografts support an oncogenic role of miR-410. These data suggest that miR-410 
acts as a tumor suppressor in the initial stages of PCa and play an oncogenic 
role in advanced PCa. Our findings have important implications in understanding 
the molecular basis of PCa progression with potential translational 
implications.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers16010048
PMCID: PMC10777946
PMID: 38201476

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


13. Eur Radiol. 2024 Jan 4. doi: 10.1007/s00330-023-10542-1. Online ahead of print.

Development and validation of a clinical decision support system based on PSA, 
microRNAs, and MRI for the detection of prostate cancer.

Mazzetti S(1)(2), Defeudis A(3)(4), Nicoletti G(2)(5), Chiorino G(6), De Luca 
S(7), Faletti R(8), Gatti M(8), Gontero P(9), Manfredi M(7), Mello-Grand M(6), 
Peraldo-Neia C(6), Zitella A(9), Porpiglia F(7), Regge D(1), Giannini V(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Radiology Unit, Candiolo Cancer Institute, FPO-IRCCS, Candiolo, Italy.
(2)Department of Surgical Sciences, University of Turin, Turin, Italy.
(3)Radiology Unit, Candiolo Cancer Institute, FPO-IRCCS, Candiolo, Italy. 
arianna.defeudis@unito.it.
(4)Department of Surgical Sciences, University of Turin, Turin, Italy. 
arianna.defeudis@unito.it.
(5)Department of Electronics and Telecommunications, Polytechnic of Turin, 
Turin, Italy.
(6)Cancer Genomics Lab, Fondazione Edo ed Elvo Tempia, Biella, Italy.
(7)Department of Urology, San Luigi Gonzaga Hospital, University of Turin, 
Orbassano, Italy.
(8)Radiology Unit, Department of Surgical Sciences, University of Turin, Turin, 
Italy.
(9)Division of Urology, Department of Surgical Sciences, University of Turin, 
Turin, Italy.

OBJECTIVES: The aims of this study are to develop and validate a clinical 
decision support system based on demographics, prostate-specific antigen (PSA), 
microRNA (miRNA), and MRI for the detection of prostate cancer (PCa) and 
clinical significant (cs) PCa, and to assess if this system performs better 
compared to MRI alone.
METHODS: This retrospective, multicenter, observational study included 222 
patients (mean age 66, range 46-75 years) who underwent prostate MRI, miRNA 
(let-7a-5p and miR-103a-3p) assessment, and biopsy. Monoparametric and 
multiparametric models including age, PSA, miRNA, and MRI outcome were trained 
on 65% of the data and then validated on the remaining 35% to predict both PCa 
(any Gleason grade [GG]) and csPCa (GG ≥ 2 vs GG = 1/negative). Accuracy, 
sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive value (NPV), and area 
under the receiver operating characteristic curve were calculated.
RESULTS: MRI outcome was the best predictor in the monoparametric model for both 
detection of PCa, with sensitivity of 90% (95%CI 73-98%) and NPV of 93% (95%CI 
82-98%), and for csPCa identification, with sensitivity of 91% (95%CI 72-99%) 
and NPV of 95% (95%CI 84-99%). Sensitivity and NPV of PSA + miRNA for the 
detection of csPCa were not statistically different from the other models 
including MRI alone.
CONCLUSION: MRI stand-alone yielded the best prediction models for both PCa and 
csPCa detection in biopsy-naïve patients. The use of miRNAs let-7a-5p and 
miR-103a-3p did not improve classification performances compared to MRI 
stand-alone results.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE STATEMENT: The use of miRNA (let-7a-5p and miR-103a-3p), PSA, 
and MRI in a clinical decision support system (CDSS) does not improve MRI 
stand-alone performance in the detection of PCa and csPCa.
KEY POINTS: • Clinical decision support systems including MRI improve the 
detection of both prostate cancer and clinically significant prostate cancer 
with respect to PSA test and/or microRNA. • The use of miRNAs let-7a-5p and 
miR-103a-3p did not significantly improve MRI stand-alone performance. • Results 
of this study were in line with previous works on MRI and microRNA.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00330-023-10542-1
PMID: 38177618


14. Cell Death Discov. 2023 Dec 14;9(1):455. doi: 10.1038/s41420-023-01750-1.

A novel circular RNA, circMAML3, promotes tumor progression of prostate cancer 
by regulating miR-665/MAPK8IP2 axis.

Zhenhao Z(1), Ru C(2)(3), Xiaofeng C(2), Heng Y(2), Gongxian W(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Jiangxi Provincial People's Hospital, The First 
Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang Medical College, 330000, Nanchang, China. 
zzh@email.ncu.edu.cn.
(2)Department of Urology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang University, 
330000, Nanchang, China.
(3)Department of Urology, Fujian Medical University Union Hospital, 29 Xinquan 
Road, 29, Gulou District, 350001, Fuzhou, Fujian, P. R. China.
(4)Department of Urology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang University, 
330000, Nanchang, China. uro_wgx@163.com.

Many studies have now demonstrated that circRNAs are aberrantly expressed in 
cancer and are involved in the regulation of malignant tumor progression. 
However, the role of circMAML3 (hsa_circ_0125392) in prostate cancer has not 
been reported. circMAML3 was selected from public data through screening. The 
circMAML3 circular characterization was performed using Sanger sequencing, 
agarose gel electrophoresis assay, RNase R assay and actinomycin D assay. The 
expression of circMAML3 in prostate cancer tissues and cells was detected by 
qRT-PCR. In vivo and in vitro experiments were conducted to investigate the 
biological functions of circMAML3 in prostate cancer. Finally, the underlying 
mechanism of circMAML3 was revealed by qRT-PCR, luciferase reporter assay, miRNA 
Pulldown, RNA immunoprecipitation, western blotting, and rescue assay. Compared 
to normal prostate tissue and prostate epithelial cells, circMAML3 is highly 
expressed in prostate cancer tissues and cell lines. CircMAML3 overexpression 
promotes prostate cancer proliferation and metastasis, while knockdown of 
circMAML3 exerts the opposite effect. Mechanistically, circMAML3 promotes 
prostate cancer progression by upregulating MAPK8IP2 expression through sponge 
miR-665. Our research indicates that circMAML3 promotes prostate cancer 
progression through the circMAML3/miR-665/MAPK8IP2 axis. circMAML3 and MAPK8IP2 
are upregulated in prostate cancer expression and play an oncogenic role, 
whereas miR-665 is downregulated in prostate cancer and plays an oncogenic role. 
Therefore, CircMAML3 may be a potential biomarker for prostate cancer diagnosis, 
treatment and prognosis.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41420-023-01750-1
PMCID: PMC10721837
PMID: 38097567

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


15. Heliyon. 2023 Nov 17;9(12):e22383. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e22383. 
eCollection 2023 Dec.

Integrated analysis of the potential roles of microRNA-messenger RNA networks in 
prostate adenocarcinoma.

Zhang NB(1), Jin JJ(1), Ye XH(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, The First People's Hospital of Linping 
District, Hangzhou, 311103, Zhejiang, China.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, The First People's Hospital of Xiaoshan, 
Hangzhou, 311201, Zhejiang, China.

BACKGROUND: Prostate adenocarcinoma is a frequent cancer among men with high 
incidence and mortality rates. Biomarkers are useful for the treatment of 
cancers, so we need to explore the regulatory network of prostate 
adenocarcinoma.
METHOD: The database from University of California Santa Cruz was used to 
determine expression of messenger RNAs and microRNAs. Weighted correlation 
network analysis was used for classifying genes. Search Tool for Recurring 
Instances of Neighboring Genes and Cytoscape were used for the construction of 
PPI network and selection of hub genes. The microRNAs were predicted in 
miRactDB. The relations between microRNAs and messenger RNAs were assessed by 
Statistical Product and Service Solutions. The prognostic value was evaluated 
through Kaplan-Meier method. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes, Gene 
Ontology and Gene Set Enrichment Analysis were used for predicting potential 
function.
RESULTS: 10 hub genes were all overexpressed in tumor tissues compared to normal 
tissues, but only aurora kinase B and nucleolar and spindle associated protein 1 
were both significantly related to disease-free interval and progression-free 
interval time.Aurora kinase B and nucleolar and spindle associated protein 1 
were negatively related to hsa-miR-1-3p, hsa-miR-133a-3p, hsa-miR-133b and 
hsa-miR-221-3p but positively related to hsa-miR-15b-5p, hsa-miR-21-5p, 
hsa-miR-106b-5p, hsa-miR-183-5p, hsa-miR-191-5p, hsa-miR-210-3p, hsa-miR-425-5p 
and hsa-miR-653-5p. All microRNAs except has-miR-653-5p significantly were 
related to the disease-free interval and progression-free interval time. The 
functions of microRNAs were enriched in cell cycle.
CONCLUSION: We identified hub messenger RNAs and core microRNAs and established 
a novel messenger RNA-microRNA network associated with the prognosis of prostate 
adenocarcinoma.

© 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e22383
PMCID: PMC10709018
PMID: 38076048

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


16. Cell Death Discov. 2023 Dec 8;9(1):445. doi: 10.1038/s41420-023-01696-4.

Secreted miR-210-3p, miR-183-5p and miR-96-5p reduce sensitivity to docetaxel in 
prostate cancer cells.

Canovai M(1), Evangelista M(1), Mercatanti A(1), D'Aurizio R(2), Pitto L(1), 
Marrocolo F(3), Casieri V(4), Pellegrini M(2), Lionetti V(4), Bracarda S(3)(5), 
Rizzo M(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Clinical Physiology (IFC), CNR, Pisa, Italy.
(2)Institute for Informatics and Telematics (IIT), CNR, Pisa, Italy.
(3)UOC Medical Oncology, San Donato Hospital, Arezzo, Italy.
(4)Unit of Translational Critical Care Medicine, Laboratory of Basic and Applied 
Medical Sciences, Interdisciplinary Research Center "Health Science", Sant'Anna 
school of Advanced Studies, Pisa, Italy.
(5)Medical and Translational Oncology, Department of Oncology, Azienda 
Ospedaliera Santa Maria, Terni, Italy.
(6)Institute of Clinical Physiology (IFC), CNR, Pisa, Italy. 
milena.rizzo@cnr.it.

Docetaxel (DCT) resistance is one of the main factors responsible for treatment 
failure in metastatic prostate cancer (PCa). Although several mechanisms of DCT 
resistance have been elucidated, the issue is still far from comprehensive. In 
this work we show that miR-96-5p, miR-183-5p and miR-210-3p (referred to as 
sDCTR-miRNAs) are specifically released by DCT resistant (DCTR) PCa clones and 
decrease the efficacy of DCT in PCa cells when overexpressed. Through 
bioinformatic analysis, we identified several potential targets of sDCTR-miRNAs' 
activity including FOXO1, IGFBP3, and PDCD4 known to exert a role in DCT 
resistance. Additionally, we found that PPP2CB and INSIG1 mediated the ability 
of sDCTR-miRNAs to reduce the efficacy of DCT. We explored whether secreted 
sDCTR-miRNAs could affect the phenotype of PCa cells. We found that exposure to 
exosomes derived from DCTR PCa clones (in which the content of sDCTR-miRNAs was 
higher than in exosomes from parental cells), as well as exposure to exosome 
loaded with sDCTR-miRNAs, reduced the cytotoxicity of DCT in PCa cells sensitive 
to the drug. Finally, we validated circulating miR-183-5p and miR-21-5p as 
potential predictive biomarkers of DCT resistance in PCa patients. Our study 
suggests a horizontal transfer mechanism mediated by exosomal miRNAs that 
contributes to reduce docetaxel sensitivity and highlights the relevance of 
cell-to-cell communication in drug resistance.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41420-023-01696-4
PMCID: PMC10709610
PMID: 38065937

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


17. Cell Signal. 2024 Feb;114:110998. doi: 10.1016/j.cellsig.2023.110998. Epub 2023 
Dec 3.

Tumor suppressor miR-361-3p inhibits prostate cancer progression through Gli1 
and AKT/mTOR signaling pathway.

Wang S(1), Huang X(2), Zhang G(2), Chen Z(2), Guan H(3), Zhou W(4).

Author information:
(1)Chongming Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai University of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, Shanghai 201318, China; Department of Urology, The First Affiliated 
Hospital of Bengbu Medical College, Bengbu, Anhui Province 233099, China.
(2)Department of Urology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Bengbu Medical 
College, Bengbu, Anhui Province 233099, China.
(3)Department of Urology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Bengbu Medical 
College, Bengbu, Anhui Province 233099, China. Electronic address: 
51706@bbmc.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Urology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Bengbu Medical 
College, Bengbu, Anhui Province 233099, China. Electronic address: 
zhouwensheng@WUST.EDU.PL.

BACKGROUND: The primary challenge in prostate cancer (PCa) is tumor metastasis, 
which seriously affects the survival time of patients. Growing evidence suggests 
that microRNAs play a crucial regulatory role in various malignancies and that 
the tumor suppressor miR-361-3p is responsible for regulating migration, 
proliferation, and invasion in different cancer types. However, the underlying 
regulatory mechanism of miR-361-3p in PCa remains unknown.
METHODS: The expression of miR-361-3p in PCa cells was analyzed using 
quantitative real time-polymerase chain reaction. The clinical utility of 
miR-361-3p in PCa was evaluated using in vitro assays. The mechanism of action 
of miR-361-3p was investigated using western blotting, luciferase reporter 
assays, immunofluorescence, and rescue studies.
RESULTS: The function, invasiveness, migration, and proliferation of PCa cells, 
as well as epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), were aided by the 
downregulation of miR-361-3p, whereas its overexpression exerted the opposite 
effect. Repression of glioma-associated oncogene homolog 1 (Gli1) expression by 
miR-361-3p led to activation of the protein kinase B/mammalian target of 
rapamycin (AKT/mTOR) signaling pathway, triggering EMT and promoting PCa 
metastasis.
CONCLUSIONS: Downregulation of miR-361-3p along the Gli1 axis promoted tumor 
malignancy. Collectively, the results of this study imply that miR-361-3p has 
the potential to be both a biomarker and therapeutic target in PCa.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cellsig.2023.110998
PMID: 38048859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.


18. Bioinform Biol Insights. 2023 Nov 27;17:11779322231214445. doi: 
10.1177/11779322231214445. eCollection 2023.

A Systems Biology Approach for Investigating Significant Biomarkers and Drug 
Targets Common Among Patients with Gonorrhea, Chlamydia, and Prostate Cancer: A 
Pilot Study.

Noman AA(1), Islam MK(1), Feroz T(1), Hossain MM(1), Shakil MSK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Genetic Engineering, Noakhali Science and 
Technology University, Noakhali, Bangladesh.

Having a previous history of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) such as 
gonorrhea and chlamydia increases the chance of developing prostate cancer, the 
second most frequent malignant cancer among men. However, the molecular 
functions that cause the development of prostate cancer in persons with 
gonorrhea and chlamydia are yet unknown. In this study, we studied RNA-seq gene 
expression profiles using computational biology methods to find out potential 
biomarkers that could help us in understanding the patho-biological mechanisms 
of gonorrhea, chlamydia, and prostate cancer. Using statistical methods on the 
Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) data sets, it was found that a total of 22 
distinct differentially expressed genes were shared among these 3 diseases of 
which 14 were up-regulated (PGRMC1, TSC22D1, SH3BGRL, NNT, CTSC, FRMD3, CCR2, 
FAM210B, VCL, PTGS1, SLFN11, SLC40A1, PROS1, and DSE) and the remaining 8 genes 
were down-regulated (PRNP, HINT3, MARCKSL1, TMED10, SH3KBP1, ENSA, DERL1, and 
KMT2B). Investigation on these 22 unique dysregulated genes using Gene Ontology, 
BioCarta, KEGG, and Reactome revealed multiple altered molecular pathways, 
including regulation of amyloid precursor protein catabolic process, 
ferroptosis, effects on gene expression of Homo sapiens PPAR pathway, and innate 
immune system R-HSA-168249. Four significant hub proteins namely VCL, SH3KBP1, 
PRNP, and PGRMC1 were revealed by protein-protein interaction network analysis. 
By analyzing gene-transcription factors and gene-miRNAs interactions, 
significant transcription factors (POU2F2, POU2F1, GATA6, and HIVEP1) and 
posttranscriptional regulator microRNAs (hsa-miR-7-5p) were also identified. 
Three potential therapeutic compounds namely INCB3284, CCX915, and MLN-1202 were 
found to interact with up-regulated protein C-C chemokine receptor type 2 (CCR2) 
in protein-drug interaction analysis. The proposed biomarkers and therapeutic 
potential molecules could be investigated for potential pharmacological targets 
and activity in the fight against in patients with gonorrhea, chlamydia, and 
prostate cancer.

© The Author(s) 2023.

DOI: 10.1177/11779322231214445
PMCID: PMC10683397
PMID: 38033384

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.


19. J Transl Med. 2023 Nov 25;21(1):850. doi: 10.1186/s12967-023-04708-0.

CircTENM3 inhibites tumor progression via the miR-558/RUNX3 axis in prostate 
cancer.

Lu L(#)(1), Wang F(#)(2), Chen J(1), Zhao C(2), Guo S(1), Dong D(3), Jiang M(4), 
Huang Y(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urinary Surgery, Suzhou Ninth People's Hospital, Soochow 
University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, China.
(2)Department of Urology, The Affiliated Suzhou Hospital of Nanjing Medical 
University, Suzhou Municipal Hospital, Gusu School, Nanjing Medical University, 
Suzhou, Jiangsu, China.
(3)Suzhou Ninth People's Hospital, Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, China. 
15995579471@163.com.
(4)Department of Urinary Surgery, Suzhou Ninth People's Hospital, Soochow 
University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, China. szjy_jmj@163.com.
(5)Department of Urinary Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of Soochow 
University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, China. sdfyy_hyh@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Prostate cancer (PCa) is currently acknowledged as the second most 
widespread cancer among men worldwide. Yet, the lack of dependable diagnostic 
biomarkers and therapeutic targets has presented considerable hurdles to the 
progression of prostate cancer treatment. Circular RNAs are implicated in the 
pathogenesis of numerous diseases, positioning them as promising biomarkers for 
diverse medical conditions. This study aims to uncover a specific circRNA that 
could serve as a diagnostic and therapeutic target for detecting and treating 
PCa.
METHODS: The change of circTENM3 expression levels in PCa was detected by qPCR. 
CCK8 assays, EdU assays, Scratch assay and Transwell migration assay conducted 
to detect the role of circTENM3 in PCa cells in vitro. RIP assay, RNA-pull down 
and luciferase reporter assay were performed to explore the mechanism of 
circTENM3. Gain-of-function analysis was performed to reveal the function of 
circTENM3 in PCa in vivo.
RESULTS: The results revealed that the expression level of circTENM3 was 
significantly down-regulated in PCa. CircTENM3 overexpression alleviated the 
progression of PCa in vitro. Mechanistically, circTENM3 enhanced RUNX3 levels 
via miR-558 sponge. Gain-of-function analysis determined that circTENM3 
overexpression could inhibit PCa progression in vitro.
CONCLUSIONS: Our research offers profound insights into the protective role 
played by circTENM3 in PCa. CircTENM3 operates as a sponge for miR-558, thereby 
triggering the elevation of RUNX3 expression, which subsequently curbs the 
progression of PCa.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12967-023-04708-0
PMCID: PMC10675854
PMID: 38007527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interest exists.


20. Biomedicines. 2023 Nov 16;11(11):3073. doi: 10.3390/biomedicines11113073.

miRNA Expression Patterns in Early- and Late-Stage Prostate Cancer Patients: 
High-Throughput Analysis.

Gilyazova I(1)(2), Ivanova E(1)(3), Gupta H(4), Mustafin A(2), Ishemgulov R(2), 
Izmailov A(2), Gilyazova G(2), Pudova E(5), Pavlov V(2), Khusnutdinova 
E(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Subdivision of the Ufa Federal Research Centre of the Russian Academy of 
Sciences, Institute of Biochemistry and Genetics, 450054 Ufa, Russia.
(2)Institute of Urology and Clinical Oncology, Department of Medical Genetics 
and Fundamental Medicine, Bashkir State Medical University, 450008 Ufa, Russia.
(3)Biology Department, St. Petersburg State University, 199034 Saint-Petersburg, 
Russia.
(4)Department of Biotechnology, Institute of Applied Sciences and Humanities, 
GLA University, Mathura 281406, India.
(5)Engelhardt Institute of Molecular Biology, Russian Academy of Sciences, 
119991 Moscow, Russia.

Prostate cancer (PCa) is one of the most common types of cancer among men. To 
date, there have been no specific markers identified for the diagnosis and 
prognosis or response to treatment of this disease. Thus, there is an urgent 
need for promising markers, which may be fulfilled by small non-coding RNAs 
known as microRNAs (miRNAs). Therefore, the present study aimed to investigate 
the miRNA profile in tissue samples obtained from patients with PCa using 
microarrays, followed by reverse transcriptase quantitative PCRs (RT-qPCRs). In 
the discovery phase, 754 miRNAs were screened in tissues obtained from patients 
(n = 46) with PCa in early and late stages. Expression levels of miRNA-324-3p, 
miRNA-429, miRNA-570, and miRNA-616 were found to be downregulated, and 
miRNA-423-5p expression was upregulated in patients with early-stage cancer 
compared to the late-stage ones. These five miRNAs were further validated in an 
independent cohort of samples (n = 39) collected from patients with PCa using 
RT-qPCR-based assays. MiRNA-324-3p, miRNA-429, miRNA-570, and miRNA-616 
expression levels remained significantly downregulated in early-stage cancer 
tissues compared to late-stage tissues. Remarkably, for a combination of three 
miRNAs, PSA levels and Gleason scores were able to discriminate between patients 
with early-stage PCa and late-stage PCa, with an AUC of 95%, a sensitivity of 
86%, and a specificity close to 94%. Thus, the data obtained in this study 
suggest a possible involvement of the identified miRNAs in the pathogenesis of 
PCa, and they may also have the potential to be developed into diagnostic and 
prognostic tools for PCa. However, further studies with a larger cohort are 
needed.

DOI: 10.3390/biomedicines11113073
PMCID: PMC10669269
PMID: 38002073

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


21. Cancer Med. 2023 Dec;12(24):21694-21708. doi: 10.1002/cam4.6728. Epub 2023 Nov 
21.

Radiotranscriptomics identified new mRNAs and miRNA markers for distinguishing 
prostate cancer from benign prostatic hyperplasia.

Yang Q(1)(2), Li Q(2), Li N(2), Wang D(2), Niu S(3), Tang P(4), Xiao J(2), Zhao 
J(2), Wang P(5), Luo Y(1)(2), Tang J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ultrasound, Air Force Medical Center, PLA, Air Force Military 
Medical University, Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Ultrasound, First Medical Center, Chinese PLA General Hospital, 
Beijing, China.
(3)Department of Urology, First Medical Center, Chinese PLA General Hospital, 
Beijing, China.
(4)Department of Orthopedics, China Rehabilitation Research Center, Beijing 
Charity Hospital, Beijing, China.
(5)Department of Ultrasound Diagnosis and Treatment Center, Xi'an International 
Medical Center Hospital, Xian, China.

The present study investigated ultrasound (US) phenotypes reflecting prostate 
cancer (PCa)-related genetic mutations. Herein, integration of 
radiotranscriptomic data, US and contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) radiomic 
images, and RNA sequencing was performed with the aim of significantly improving 
the accuracy of PCa prognosis. We performed radiotranscriptomic analysis of 
clinical, imaging, and two genomic (mRNA and microRNA expression) datasets from 
48 and 22 men with PCa and benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), respectively. 
Twenty-three US texture features and four microvascular perfusion features were 
associated with various patterns of 52 differentially expressed genes related to 
PCa (p < 0.05); 17 overexpressed genes were associated with two key texture 
features. Twelve overexpressed genes were identified using microvascular 
perfusion features. Furthermore, mRNA and miRNA biomarkers could be used to 
distinguish between PCa and BPH. Compared with RNA sequencing, B-mode and CEUS 
features reflected genomic alterations associated with hormone receptor status, 
angiogenesis, and prognosis in patients with PCa. These findings indicate the 
potential of US to assess biomarker levels in patients with PCa.

© 2023 The Authors. Cancer Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/cam4.6728
PMCID: PMC10757143
PMID: 37987209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any specific financial interests, relationships, or 
affiliations relevant to the subject matter or materials discussed in the 
manuscript (e.g., employment/affiliation; grants or funding; consultancies; 
honoraria; stock ownership or options; expert testimony; royalties; or patents 
filed, received, or pending) that could be construed as potential conflicts of 
interest.


22. Aging (Albany NY). 2023 Nov 16;15(22):12966-12981. doi: 10.18632/aging.205213. 
Epub 2023 Nov 16.

Crucial role of hsa-mir-503, hsa-mir-1247, and their validation in prostate 
cancer.

Hu P(1), Wang T(2), Yan H(3), Huang Y(4), Zhao Y(4), Gao Y(4).

Author information:
(1)The First Department of Medical Oncology, General Hospital of Ningxia Medical 
University, Yinchuan 750004, Ningxia, P.R. China.
(2)The Second Department of Surgical Oncology, General Hospital of Ningxia 
Medical University, Yinchuan 750004, Ningxia, P.R. China.
(3)The Second Department of Medicine Oncology, General Hospital of Ningxia 
Medical University, Yinchuan 750004, Ningxia, P.R. China.
(4)The Third Department of Medicine Oncology, General Hospital of Ningxia 
Medical University, Yinchuan 750004, Ningxia, P.R. China.

BACKGROUND: Prostate cancer (PC) is a common urinary system malignancy, and 
advanced PC patients had a poor prognosis due to recurrence or distant 
metastasis. Therefore, it's imperative to reveal more details in tumorigenesis 
and prognosis of PC patients.
METHODS: The miRNA and mRNA expression profile data of 485 PC patients were 
obtained from The Cancer Genome Atlas database. The univariate Cox regression 
was applied to screen miRNAs relating to prognosis of PC. Then miRTarBase was 
used to predict target mRNAs of miRNAs. The hsa-mir-503/hsa-mir-1247 knockdown 
in 22RV1 cells was established to evaluate the effect of these two miRNAs on 
tumor cell migration and invasion ability. Flow cytometry was used to detect the 
effect of hsa-mir-503/hsa-mir-1247 knockdown on 22RV1 apoptosis rate.
RESULTS: Univariate Cox regression analysis identified hsa-mir-503 as a poor and 
hsa-mir-1247 as a favorable prognostic marker. Totally 649 target mRNAs were 
screened, among which DUSP19, FGF2, and SLC2A5 had a negative correlation with 
hsa-mir-503, while FGF2 and VSTM4 had a positive correlation with hsa-mir-1247. 
In 22RV1 cells, hsa-mir-503 was up-regulated, and hsa-mir-1247 was 
down-regulated. hsa-mir-503 knockdown attenuated the migration and invasion of 
22RV1 cells, while hsa-mir-1247 knockdown exhibited the opposite effect. In 
addition, hsa-mir-503 knockdown promoted 22RV1 cell apoptosis. hsa-mir-1247 
overexpression significantly inhibited the tumor growth of PC in vivo.
CONCLUSIONS: Herein, we demonstrated that hsa-mir-503 and hsa-mir-1247 could 
serve as new prognostic markers of PC, and hsa-mir-1247 had great potential to 
inhibit PC progression by suppressing the migration and invasion ability in 
vitro and in vivo.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.205213
PMCID: PMC10713397
PMID: 37980162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICTS OF INTEREST: The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest related to this study.


23. Cancer Cell Int. 2023 Nov 17;23(1):275. doi: 10.1186/s12935-023-03123-1.

In silico analysis of prognostic and diagnostic significance of target genes 
from prostate cancer cell lines derived exomicroRNAs.

Altuna-Coy A(#)(1), Ruiz-Plazas X(#)(1)(2), Arreaza-Gil V(1), Segarra-Tomás 
J(#)(1)(2), Chacón MR(#)(3).

Author information:
(1)Disease Biomarkers and Molecular Mechanisms Group, IISPV, Joan XXIII 
University Hospital, Universitat Rovira I Virgili, C/Dr. Mallafré Guasch, 4,, 
43007, Tarragona, Spain.
(2)Urology Unit, Joan XXIII University Hospital, Tarragona, Spain.
(3)Disease Biomarkers and Molecular Mechanisms Group, IISPV, Joan XXIII 
University Hospital, Universitat Rovira I Virgili, C/Dr. Mallafré Guasch, 4,, 
43007, Tarragona, Spain. mrch2424@gmail.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Cancer-secreted exovesicles are important for cell-to-cell 
communication by altering cancer-related signalling pathways. 
Exovesicles-derived miRNAs (exomiRNAs)-target genes can be useful for diagnostic 
and prognostic purposes.
METHODS: ExomiRNA from prostate cancer (PCa) cells (PC-3 and LNCaP) were 
quantified by qRT-PCR and compared to the healthy cell line RWPE-1 by using 
miRNome PCR 752 miRNAs Panel. MiRNet database was used to predict 
exomiRNA-target genes. ExomiRNA-target genes pathway functional enrichment was 
performed by using Reactome database and Enrichr platform. Protein-protein 
interaction analysis was carried out by using the STRING database. RNA 
target-gene sequencing data from The Cancer Genome Atlas Prostate Adenocarcinoma 
(TCGA-PRAD) database was screened out in 465 PCa patients for candidate gene 
expression in prostate tumour (PT) tissue and non-pathologic prostate (N-PP) 
tissue. Signature gene candidates were statistically analysed for diagnosis and 
prognosis usefulness.
RESULTS: A total of 36 exomiRNAs were found downregulated when comparing PCa 
cells vs a healthy cell line; and when comparing PC-3 vs LNCaP, 14 miRNAs were 
found downregulated and 52 upregulated. Reactome pathway database revealed 
altered pathways and genes related to miRNA biosynthesis, miRNA-mediated gene 
silencing (TNRC6B and AGO1), and cell proliferation (CDK6), among others. 
Results showed that TNRC6B gene expression was up-regulated in PT tissue 
compared to N-PP (n = 52 paired samples) and could be useful for diagnostic 
purposes. Likewise, gene expression levels of CDK6, TNRC6B, and AGO1 were 
down-regulated in high-risk PT (n = 293) compared to low-risk PCa tissue 
counterparts (n = 172). When gene expression levels of CDK6, TNRC6B, and AGO1 
were tested as a prognostic panel, the results showed that these improve the 
prognostic power of classical biomarkers.
CONCLUSION: ExomiRNAs-targets genes, TNRC6B, CDK6, and AGO1, showed a 
deregulated expression profile in PCa tissue and could be useful for PCa 
diagnosis and prognosis.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12935-023-03123-1
PMCID: PMC10655318
PMID: 37978493

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


24. Med Pharm Rep. 2023 Oct;96(4):384-391. doi: 10.15386/mpr-2639. Epub 2023 Oct 26.

TP53 gene implications in prostate cancer evolution: potential role in tumor 
classification.

Schitcu VH(#)(1)(2)(3), Raduly L(#)(1), Zanoaga O(#)(1), Jurj A(1), Munteanu 
VC(2)(3), Budisan L(1), Petrut B(2)(3), Braicu C(1), Coman I(3), Berindan-Neagoe 
I(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Functional Genomics, Biomedicine and Translational 
Medicine, Iuliu Hatieganu University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Cluj-Napoca, 
Romania.
(2)Department of Urology, "Prof. Dr. Ion Chiricuta" Oncology Institute, 
Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(3)Department of Urology, Iuliu Hatieganu University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 
Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Prostate adenocarcinoma (PRAD) is a complex disease that 
can be driven by alterations in both coding and noncoding genes. Recent research 
has identified coding and non-coding genes that are considered to play important 
roles in prostate cancer evolution and which may be used as biomarkers for 
disease diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment. TP53 is a critical hub gene in 
prostate cancer. Advanced studies have demonstrated the crosstalk between coding 
and non-coding RNAs, particularly microRNAs (miRNAs).
METHODS: In this study, we investigated the roundabout of TP53 and their 
regulatory miRNAs (miR-15a-5p, miR-34a-5p, and miR-141-3p) based on the TCGA 
data set. We validated an additional patient cohort of 28 matched samples of 
patients with PRAD at tissue and plasma level.
RESULTS: Therefore, using the UALCAN online database, we evaluated the 
expression level in PRAD of these genes revealing overexpression of TP53. 
qRT-PCR validation step endorsed the expression level for these genes. 
Additionally, we evaluated the expression level of the four key miRNAs 
(miR-15a-5p, miR-34a-5p, and miR-141-3p) interconnected as a network at tissue 
and plasma levels.
CONCLUSIONS: Through these results, we demonstrated the essential function of 
TP53 and its associated miRNAs that play a significant role in tumor control, 
highlighting miRNAs' potential as future therapeutic targets and biomarkers with 
important implications in managing prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.15386/mpr-2639
PMCID: PMC10642740
PMID: 37970196


25. Int J Biol Markers. 2024 Mar;39(1):70-79. doi: 10.1177/03936155231213660. Epub 
2023 Nov 13.

The value of a three-microRNA panel in serum for prostate cancer screening.

Lin S(1)(2), Sun C(1)(3), Li R(1)(3), Lu C(1)(3), Li X(1)(2), Wen Z(1)(2), Ge 
Z(1)(2), Chen W(1)(2), Li Y(1)(4), Li H(1)(3), Lai Y(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Guangdong and Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Reproductive 
Medicine and Genetics, Peking University Shenzhen Hospital, Shenzhen, Guangdong, 
China.
(2)Shantou University Medical College, Shantou, Guangdong, China.
(3)Anhui Medical University, Hefei, Anhui, China.
(4)Shenzhen University School of Medicine, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China.

BACKGROUND: Globally, prostate cancer is the second most common malignancy in 
males. Serum microRNAs (miRNAs) may function as non-invasive and innovative 
biomarkers for various cancers. Our study aimed to determine potential miRNAs 
for prostate cancer screening.
METHODS: A three-stage study was accomplished to ascertain crucial miRNAs as 
markers. In the screening stage, we searched PubMed for aberrantly expressed 
miRNAs relevant to prostate cancer and selected them as candidate miRNAs. In 
training and validation stages, with serum specimens from 112 prostate cancer 
patients and 112 healthy controls, expressions of candidate miRNAs were 
identified through quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. 
The diagnostic capabilities of miRNAs were determined by receiver operating 
characteristic curves. Bioinformatic analysis was utilized to explore the 
function of the critical miRNAs.
RESULTS: Expression of six serum miRNAs (miR-34b-3p, miR-556-5p, miR-200c-3p, 
miR-361-5p, miR-369-3p, miR-485-3p) were significantly altered in prostate 
cancer patients contrasted with healthy controls. The optimal combination of 
critical miRNAs is a three-miRNA panel (miR-34b-3p, miR-200c-3p, and miR-361-5p) 
with good diagnostic capability. FLRT2, KIAA1755, LDB3, and NTRK3 were 
identified as the potential genes targeted by the three-miRNA panel.
CONCLUSIONS: The three-miRNA panel may perform as an innovative and promising 
serum marker for prostate cancer screening.

DOI: 10.1177/03936155231213660
PMID: 37960876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


26. BMJ Open. 2023 Nov 8;13(11):e077020. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2023-077020.

Danish Prostate Cancer Consortium Study 1 (DPCC-1) protocol: Multicentre 
prospective validation of the urine-based three-microRNA biomarker model uCaP.

Fredsøe J(1)(2), Glud E(1)(2), Boesen L(3), Løgager V(4), Poulsen MH(5)(6), 
Pedersen BG(7), Borre M(1)(8), Sørensen KD(9)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, 
Denmark.
(2)Department of Clinical Medicine, Aarhus University, Aarhus, Denmark.
(3)Department of Urological Research, Herlev & Gentofte University Hospital, 
Herlev, Denmark.
(4)Department of Radiology, Herlev & Gentofte University Hospital, Herlev, 
Denmark.
(5)Department of Urology, Odense University Hospital, Odense, Denmark.
(6)Department of Clinical Research, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, 
Denmark.
(7)Department of Radiology, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus N, Denmark.
(8)Department of Urology, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, Denmark.
(9)Department of Molecular Medicine, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, Denmark 
kdso@clin.au.dk.

INTRODUCTION: The primary objective of the Danish Prostate Cancer Consortium 
Study 1 (DPCC-1) is to provide validation for a novel urine-based microRNA 
biomarker, called uCaP, for a diagnosis of prostate cancer.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: Eligible participants are biopsy naïve men aged ≥18 years 
with prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels ≥3 ng/mL, who are referred to 
prostate MRI due to suspicion of PC at one of the following three major 
urology/uroradiology centers: Aarhus University Hospital, Herlev & Gentofte 
University Hospital, or Odense University Hospital, where MRI and targeted 
biopsy are implemented in clinical use. Exclusion criteria include previous 
diagnosis of urogenital cancer, contraindication to MRI, gender reassignment 
treatment or PSA level >20 ng/mL. The participants will be asked to donate a 
urine sample in connection with their MRI. The study is observational, uses a 
diagnostic accuracy testing setup and will integrate into the current diagnostic 
pathway.We will measure the levels of the three microRNAs in the uCaP model 
(miR-222-3 p, miR-24-3 p and miR-30c-5p) in extracellular vesicle-enriched 
cell-free urine samples, to assess if uCaP can improve specificity and retain 
sensitivity for International Society of Urological Pathology Grade Group ≥2 PC, 
when used as a reflex test to PSA ≥3 ng/mL. We hypothesise that uCaP can improve 
selection for prostate MRI and reduce the number of unnecessary scans and 
biopsies.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This study is approved by the Central Denmark Region 
Committee on Health Research Ethics (reference number: 1-10-72-85-22). All 
participants will provide written informed consent. Study results will be 
published in peer-reviewed journals and presented in scientific meetings.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT05767307 at clinicaltrials.gov.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2023. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2023-077020
PMCID: PMC10632827
PMID: 37940151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: JF and KDS are co-inventors 
on an issued patent (“A microRNA-based method for early detection of prostate 
cancer in urine samples” #US10400288B2, #EP3256602B1, #ES2749651T3) licensed to 
Qiagen. KDS is co-inventor on an issued patent (“Biomarkers for prostate cancer” 
#US10106854B2, #AU2013275761B2, #JP6242388B2) licensed to Qiagen and on an 
issued patent (“A microRNA-based method for assessing the prognosis of a 
prostate cancer patient” #US10358681B2, #EP3262186B1, #ES2724404T3, 
#JP6769979B2), licensed to Qiagen.


27. Zhonghua Nan Ke Xue. 2022 Nov;28(11):996-1005.

[miR-129 in the diagnosis, treatment and prediction of clinical prognosis of 
prostate cancer].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhao XD(1), Tang ZL(1), Wang ZH(1), Dong J(2), Xu S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Jinling School of Clinical Medicine, Nanjing Medical University, Nanjing, 
Jiangsu 210002, China.
(2)Department of Urology, General Hospital of Eastern Theater Command / Jinling 
Hospital Affiliated to Nanjing University School of Medicine, Nanjing, Jiangsu 
210002, China.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the value of miR-129 in the diagnosis, treatment and 
prediction of the clinical prognosis of PCa by observing the correlation between 
miR-129 and the progression of the malignancy.
METHODS: This retrospective analysis included 310 male patients who visited the 
Department of Urology of the General Hospital of Eastern Theater Command from 
January 2014 to January 2022, 80 as normal healthy men, 80 with BPH, and the 
other 150 with PCa treated by radical prostatectomy without chemotherapy, 
radiotherapy or androgen-deprivation therapy. We determined the miR-129 
expression in the serum and prostatic tissue of all the subjects by real-time 
quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR), performed pathological grading of the primary 
cancerous and pericancerous (≥ 3 cm from the focus) prostate tissues from the 
150 PCa patients, collected the demographic and clinical data on all the 
subjects, and analyzed the correlation of their demographic data with the 
clinical parameters. We selected and transfected PC-3 and DU-145 cell lines with 
miR-129 precursor or miR-129 scramble, assessed the proliferation ability of 
each cell line and detected the expression levels of related proteins by cell 
proliferation assay and Western blot.
RESULTS: The expression of miR-129 was significantly decreased in the serum of 
the PCa patients compared with that in the normal healthy men and BPH patients 
(P < 0.01), so was it in the PCa tissue in comparison with that in the 
pericancerous prostatic tissue (P < 0.01), and it was negatively correlated with 
the preoperative serum PSA level (P < 0.001), histological grade (P < 0.001), 
pathological stage (P < 0.001), Gleason score (P < 0.001), lymph node metastasis 
(P = 0.02), angiolymphatic invasion (P = 0.021) and biochemical recurrence (BCR) 
(P=0.001). Kaplan-Meier analysis showed a strong correlation of down-regulated 
miR-129 expression with a lower BCR-free survival rate, while multivariate 
survival analysis indicated that the expression of miR-129 was an independent 
prognostic indicator of BCR-free survival of the PCa patients (P < 0.001). 
Highly expressed miR-129 significantly inhibited the proliferation of PCa cells 
by regulating the expressions of cell cycle-regulatory proteins.
CONCLUSION: The expression of miR-129 is significantly down-regulated in PCa 
tissues, which plays an important role in inhibiting the proliferation of PCa 
cells and tumor progression and improving BCR-free survival. Therefore, miR-129 
can be considered as a new independent biomarker for the diagnosis, treatment 
and prediction of the clinical prognosis of PCa.

PMID: 37846115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Int J Mol Sci. 2023 Oct 3;24(19):14847. doi: 10.3390/ijms241914847.

The Effect of Gene Editing by CRISPR-Cas9 of miR-21 and the Indirect Target MMP9 
in Metastatic Prostate Cancer.

Camargo JA(1), Viana NI(1)(2), Pimenta R(1)(3), Guimarães VR(1), Dos Santos 
GA(1), Candido P(1), Ghazarian V(1), Romão P(1), Silva IA(1), Birbrair 
A(4)(5)(6), Srougi M(1)(3), Nahas WC(7), Leite KR(1), Trarbach EB(8), Reis 
ST(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Medical Investigation (LIM 55), Urology Department, Medicine 
School, University of Sao Paulo (FMUSP), São Paulo 01246-903, SP, Brazil.
(2)Department of Bioscience, Minas Gerais State University (UEMG), Passos 
37900-106, MG, Brazil.
(3)D'Or Institute for Research and Education (ID'Or), São Paulo 04501-000, SP, 
Brazil.
(4)Department of Pathology, Federal University of Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte 
30190-002, MG, Brazil.
(5)Department of Dermatology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, WI 
53715, USA.
(6)Department of Radiology, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, NY 
10032, USA.
(7)Uro-Oncology Group, Urology Department, University of São Paulo Medical 
School and Institute of Cancer Estate of São Paulo (ICESP), São Paulo 01246-000, 
SP, Brazil.
(8)Laboratory of Cellular and Molecular Endocrinology (LIM25), Endocrinology 
Departament, Medicine School, University of São Paulo (FMUSP), São Paulo 
01246-903, SP, Brazil.

Prostate cancer (PCa) has a high prevalence and represents an important health 
problem, with an increased risk of metastasis. With the advance of CRISPR-Cas9 
genome editing, new possibilities have been created for investigating PCa. The 
technique is effective in knockout oncogenes, reducing tumor resistance. MMP9 
and miR-21 target genes are associated with PCa progression; therefore, we 
evaluated the MMP-9 and miR-21 targets in PCa using the CRISPR-Cas9 system. 
Single guide RNAs (sgRNAs) of MMP9 and miR-21 sequences were inserted into a 
PX-330 plasmid, and transfected in DU145 and PC-3 PCa cell lines. MMP9 and RECK 
expression was assessed by qPCR, WB, and IF. The miR-21 targets, integrins, BAX 
and mTOR, were evaluated by qPCR. Flow cytometry was performed with Annexin5, 
7-AAD and Ki67 markers. Invasion assays were performed with Matrigel. The miR-21 
CRISPR-Cas9-edited cells upregulated RECK, MARCKS, BTG2, and PDCD4. CDH1, ITGB3 
and ITGB1 were increased in MMP9 and miR-21 CRISPR-Cas9-edited cells. Increased 
BAX and decreased mTOR were observed in MMP9 and miR-21 CRISPR-Cas9-edited 
cells. Reduced cell proliferation, increased apoptosis and low invasion in MMP9 
and miR-21 edited cells was observed, compared to Scramble. CRISPR-Cas9-edited 
cells of miR-21 and MMP9 attenuate cell proliferation, invasion and stimulate 
apoptosis, impeding PCa evolution.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms241914847
PMCID: PMC10573678
PMID: 37834295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


29. Prostate. 2024 Feb;84(2):131-147. doi: 10.1002/pros.24632. Epub 2023 Oct 12.

Berbamine targets cancer stem cells and reverses cabazitaxel resistance via 
inhibiting IGF2BP1 and p-STAT3 in prostate cancer.

Wang L(1), Lyu C(1), Stadlbauer B(1)(2), Buchner A(1)(2), Nößner E(3), Pohla 
H(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Tumor Immunology Laboratory, LIFE Center, LMU Klinikum, University Munich, 
Munich, Germany.
(2)Department of Urology, LMU Klinikum, University Munich, Munich, Germany.
(3)Immunoanalytics: Research Group Tissue Control of Immunocytes, Deutsches 
Forschungszentrum für Gesundheit und Umwelt, Helmholtz Zentrum München, Munich, 
Germany.

BACKGROUND: Cancer stem cells (CSCs) are a small subpopulation of tumor cells 
with the capability of self-renewal and drug resistance, leading to tumor 
progression and disease relapse. Our study aimed to investigate the antitumor 
effect of berbamine, extracted from berberis amurensis, on prostate CSCs.
METHODS: Sphere formation was used to collect prostate CSCs. The viability, 
proliferation, invasion, migration, and apoptosis assays were used to evaluate 
the antitumor effect of berbamine on prostate CSCs. Prostate CSC markers were 
analyzed by flow cytometry and qRT-PCR. Small RNA sequencing analysis was 
conducted to analyse miRNAs. Exosomes were extracted using the ExoQuick-TC kit 
and verified by testing exosomal markers using western blot.
RESULTS: Berbamine targets prostate CSCs. Additionally, berbamine enhanced the 
antitumor effect of cabazitaxel, a second-line chemotherapeutic drug for 
advanced prostate cancer, and re-sensitized Cabazitaxel-resistant PCa cells 
(CabaR-DU145) to cabazitaxel by inhibiting ABCG2, CXCR4, IGF2BP1, and p-STAT3. 
Berbamine enhanced the expression of let-7 miRNA family and miR-26b and 
influenced the downstream targets IGF2BP1 and p-STAT3, respectively. Silencing 
CXCR4 and ABCG2 downregulated the expression of IGF2BP1 and p-STAT3, 
respectively. Importantly, berbamine enhanced also levels of exosomal let-7 
family and miR-26b, suggesting that berbamine possibly influences the expression 
of let-7 family and miR-26b through exosome delivery. Exosomes derived from 
berbamine-treated CabaR-DU145 cells re-sensitized the cells to cabazitaxel.
CONCLUSION: Berbamine enhanced the toxic activity of cabazitaxel and reversed 
cabazitaxel resistance potentially through CXCR4/exosomal let-7/IGF2BP1 and 
ABCG2/exosomal miR-26b/p-STAT3 axes.

© 2023 The Authors. The Prostate published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/pros.24632
PMID: 37828768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Anal Chim Acta. 2023 Oct 23;1279:341769. doi: 10.1016/j.aca.2023.341769. Epub 
2023 Aug 31.

A dual amplification-based CRISPR/Cas12a biosensor for sensitive detection of 
miRNA in prostate cancer.

Zhu Y(1), Zheng X(2), Zhou S(1), Xiao W(1), Sun X(1), Zhou J(1), Qian F(1), 
Zhang T(1), Sheng Y(3), Hu J(4).

Author information:
(1)MOE Key Laboratory of Laser Life Science & Institute of Laser Life Science, 
Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Laser Life Science, College of 
Biophotonics, South China Normal University, Guangzhou, 510631, China.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Guangzhou, 510080, China.
(3)MOE Key Laboratory of Laser Life Science & Institute of Laser Life Science, 
Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Laser Life Science, College of 
Biophotonics, South China Normal University, Guangzhou, 510631, China. 
Electronic address: ysheng@m.scnu.edu.cn.
(4)MOE Key Laboratory of Laser Life Science & Institute of Laser Life Science, 
Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Laser Life Science, College of 
Biophotonics, South China Normal University, Guangzhou, 510631, China. 
Electronic address: jmhu@m.scnu.edu.cn.

MicroRNA (miRNA) has gained significant attention as a potential biomarker for 
cancer clinics, and there is an urgent need for developing sensing strategies 
with high selectivity, sensitivity, and low background. In vitro diagnosis based 
on Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats/CRISPR-Associated 
protein (CRISPR/Cas) technology could simplify the detection procedure, improve 
sensitivity and selectivity, and has broad application prospects as the 
next-generation molecular diagnosis technology. We propose a novel dual signal 
amplification strategy, called CENTER, which integrates the CRISPR/Cas12a 
system, an entropy-driven DNA signaling network, and strand displacement 
amplification to achieve ultrasensitive detection of miR-141, a potential marker 
for prostate cancer. The experimental results demonstrate that CENTER can 
distinguish single nucleotide mutations, and the strategy exhibits a good linear 
calibration curve ranging from 100 aM to 1 pM. Due to dual signal amplification, 
the detection limit is as low as 34 aM. We proposed a method for identifying 
miR-141 expressed in human serum and successfully distinguished between prostate 
cancer patients (n = 20) and healthy individuals (n = 15) with an impressive 
accuracy of 94%. Overall, CENTER shows great promise for the detection of miRNA.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aca.2023.341769
PMID: 37827669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


31. Mol Cell Biochem. 2023 Oct 9. doi: 10.1007/s11010-023-04854-5. Online ahead of 
print.

Exosome miRNA-203 promotes M1 macrophage polarization and inhibits prostate 
cancer tumor progression.

Zhang LS(#)(1), Chen QC(#)(2), Zong HT(3), Xia Q(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Soochow University Affiliated Wuxi Ninth Hospital, No. 
999, Liangxi Road, Binhu District, Wuxi, 214000, Jiangsu Province, China. 
zhangliansheng0217@163.com.
(2)Department of Urology, Affiliated Jinling Hospital, Medical School of Nanjing 
University, Nanjing, 210002, Jiangsu Province, China.
(3)Department of Urology, Soochow University Affiliated Wuxi Ninth Hospital, No. 
999, Liangxi Road, Binhu District, Wuxi, 214000, Jiangsu Province, China.
(4)Department of Urology, Soochow University Affiliated Wuxi Ninth Hospital, No. 
999, Liangxi Road, Binhu District, Wuxi, 214000, Jiangsu Province, China. 
xq8558@126.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Prostate cancer (PCa) is a prevalent malignant neoplasm affecting the male 
reproductive system globally. However, the diagnostic and therapeutic approaches 
fall short of meeting the demands posed by PCa. Poor expression of miRNA-203 
(miR-203) within PCa tissues and cells implies its potential utility as a 
diagnostic indicator for PCa. Exosomes (Exo), membranous vesicles released by 
various cells, are rich reservoirs of miRNAs. However, the presence of miR-203 
presents within Exo derived from PCa cells remains unclarified. In this study, 
Exo was isolated from urine specimens collected from clinical PCa patients and 
LNCaP cells to detect miR-203 expression. Meanwhile, the impact of overexpressed 
miR-203 on M0 macrophages (mø) was analyzed. Subsequently, alterations in the 
proliferative, migratory, and invasive capacities of LNCaP cells were examined 
within a co-culture system featuring elevated miR-203 levels in both macrophages 
and LNCaP cells. Furthermore, the repercussions of miR-203 upregulation or 
inhibition were explored in a murine PCa tumor model. The results revealed that 
Exo manifested a circular or elliptical morphology, encapsulating a phospholipid 
bilayer approximately 100 nm in diameter. Notably, Exo readily infiltrated, with 
both Exo and miR-203-overexpressing Exo prompting macrophage polarization toward 
the M1 subtype. In the co-culture system, miR-203 exhibited pronounced 
suppression of LNCaP cell proliferation, migration, and invasion, while 
concurrently fostering apoptosis as compared with the LNCaP group (Control). In 
vivo experiments further disclosed that miR-203 greatly inhibited the growth of 
PCa tumors in nude mice. Markedly heightened expression of M1 macrophage markers 
such as IL-1β, IL-6, IL-12, CXCL9, and CXCL10 was observed within the tumor 
microenvironment following miR-203 intervention, as opposed to the model group. 
However, the introduction of miR-203 antagomir led to a reversal in tumor growth 
trends. This investigation indicates the presence of miR-203 within the urine of 
PCa patients and Exo originating from cells, and that miR-203 exerted antitumor 
effect by facilitating M1 macrophage polarization. Our study furnishes valuable 
insights into the potential applicability of miR-203 as a diagnostic biomarker 
and therapeutic target for PCa.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11010-023-04854-5
PMID: 37812348


32. Sci Rep. 2023 Oct 3;13(1):16602. doi: 10.1038/s41598-023-43775-7.

Functional consequences of A-to-I editing of miR-379 in prostate cancer cells.

Voss G(1), Cassidy JR(1), Ceder Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Translational Cancer Research, Department of Laboratory Medicine, 
Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(2)Division of Translational Cancer Research, Department of Laboratory Medicine, 
Lund University, Lund, Sweden. yvonne.ceder@med.lu.se.

Prostate cancer is the predominant cause of cancer in men, but there is still a 
lack of biomarkers and treatments for metastatic spread. The initial promise of 
microRNAs to provide avenues to solve these problems has been dampened by the 
realisation that microRNAs co-exist in multiple functionally distinct isoforms, 
for example due to A-to-I editing. We recently found that A-to-I-editing of 
microRNA-379 (miR-379) was associated with prostate cancer, and that only the 
unedited isoform was negatively correlated with aggressive disease. Here, we set 
out to decipher the biological effects of unedited and edited miR-379 in 
prostate cancer cells. After transfection of four different prostate cancer cell 
lines with isoform-specific miR-379 mimics, we performed assays for cell growth, 
colony formation, migration, cell-cell adhesion, and analysed 
epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and stemness markers. We found that 
unedited miR-379 affected cell growth, with a promoting function in androgen 
receptor (AR)-negative cells and an inhibiting effect in AR-positive cells. This 
is supported by our in silico analysis that found unedited miR-379 targets are 
predicted to be predominantly involved in cellular proliferation whereas the 
targets of edited miR-379 are not. We further found that both miR-379 isoforms 
could promote colony formation, migration, and cell-cell adhesion. Overall, our 
data suggests that editing of miR-379 attenuates the growth-suppressive function 
of unedited miR-379 in androgen-sensitive prostate cancer cells, thereby 
promoting tumor growth.

© 2023. Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-023-43775-7
PMCID: PMC10547749
PMID: 37789115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


33. Cells. 2023 Sep 5;12(18):2207. doi: 10.3390/cells12182207.

Targeting of AKT1 by miR-143-3p Suppresses Epithelial-to-Mesenchymal Transition 
in Prostate Cancer.

Armstrong L(1), Willoughby CE(1), McKenna DJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Genomic Medicine Research Group, Ulster University, Cromore Road, Coleraine 
BT52 1SA, UK.

An altered expression of miR-143-3p has been previously reported in prostate 
cancer where it is purported to play a tumor suppressor role. Evidence from 
other cancers suggests miR-143-3p acts as an inhibitor of 
epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT), a key biological process required 
for metastasis. However, in prostate cancer the interaction between miR-143-3p 
and EMT-associated mechanisms remains unclear. Therefore, this paper 
investigated the link between miR-143-3p and EMT in prostate cancer using in 
vitro and in silico analyses. PCR detected that miR-143-3p expression was 
significantly decreased in prostate cancer cell lines compared to normal 
prostate cells. Bioinformatic analysis of The Cancer Genome Atlas Prostate 
Adenocarcinoma (TCGA PRAD) data showed a significant downregulation of 
miR-143-3p in prostate cancer, correlating with pathological markers of advanced 
disease. Functional enrichment analysis confirmed the significant association of 
miR-143-3p and its target genes with EMT. The EMT-linked gene AKT1 was 
subsequently shown to be a novel target of miR-143-3p in prostate cancer cells. 
The in vitro manipulation of miR-143-3p levels significantly altered the cell 
proliferation, clonogenicity, migration and expression of EMT-associated 
markers. Further TCGA PRAD analysis suggested miR-143-3p tumor expression may be 
a useful predictor of disease recurrence. In summary, this is the first study to 
report that miR-143-3p overexpression in prostate cancer may inhibit EMT by 
targeting AKT1. The findings suggest miR-143-3p could be a useful diagnostic and 
prognostic biomarker for prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.3390/cells12182207
PMCID: PMC10526992
PMID: 37759434

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


34. Curr Issues Mol Biol. 2023 Sep 1;45(9):7257-7274. doi: 10.3390/cimb45090459.

In Silico Bioinformatics Analysis on the Role of Long Non-Coding RNAs as Drivers 
and Gatekeepers of Androgen-Independent Prostate Cancer Using LNCaP and PC-3 
Cells.

Mbeje M(1)(2), Kandhavelu J(3), Penny C(4), Kgoebane-Maseko M(1)(5), Dlamini 
Z(1), Marima R(1).

Author information:
(1)SAMRC Precision Oncology Research Unit (PORU), DSI/NRF SARChI Chair in 
Precision Oncology and Cancer Prevention (POCP), Pan African Cancer Research 
Institute (PACRI), University of Pretoria, Hatfield 0028, South Africa.
(2)Department of Medical Oncology, Faculty of Health Sciences, Steve Biko 
Academic Hospital, University of Pretoria, Hatfield 0028, South Africa.
(3)Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center, Department of Oncology, Georgetown 
University Medical Center, Washington, DC 20057, USA.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, School of 
Clinical Medicine, University of the Witwatersrand, Parktown 2193, South Africa.
(5)Department of Anatomical Pathology, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of 
Pretoria, Hatfield 0028, South Africa.

Prostate cancer (PCa) is the leading cancer in men globally. The association 
between PCa and long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) has been reported. Aberrantly 
expressed lncRNAs have been documented in each of the cancer "hallmarks". 
Androgen signaling plays an important role in PCa progression. This study aimed 
to profile the aberrantly expressed lncRNAs in androgen-dependent (LNCaP) PCa 
compared to androgen-independent (PC-3) PCa cells. This was achieved by using a 
384-well plate of PCa lncRNA gene panel. Differential expression of ±2 up or 
downregulation was determined using the CFX Maestro software v2.1. LncSEA and 
DIANA-miRPath were used to identify the enriched pathways. Telomerase RNA 
component (TERC) lncRNA was illustrated to participate in various tumourigenic 
classes by in silico bioinformatics analysis and was thus selected for 
validation using RT-qPCR. Further bioinformatics analysis revealed the 
involvement of differentially expressed lncRNAs in oncogenic pathways. Some 
lncRNAs undergo hypermethylation, others are encapsulated by exosomes, while 
others interact with several microRNAs (miRNAs), favouring tumourigenic 
pathways. Notably, TERC lncRNA was shown to interact with tumour-suppressor 
miRNAs hsa-miR-4429 and hsa-miR-320b. This interaction in turn activates 
TGF-β-signaling and ECM-receptor interaction pathways, favouring the progression 
of PCa. Understanding lncRNAs as competitive endogenous RNA molecules and their 
interactions with miRNAs may aid in the identification of novel prognostic PCa 
biomarkers and therapeutic targets.

DOI: 10.3390/cimb45090459
PMCID: PMC10528188
PMID: 37754243

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


35. Future Sci OA. 2023 Jul 29;9(9):FSO888. doi: 10.2144/fsoa-2023-0064. eCollection 
2023 Oct.

Reduced PDE4D7 in prostate cancer correlates with genomic downregulation within 
the upstream PDE4D coding region.

Gulliver C(1), Baillie GS(1), Hoffmann R(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Cardiovascular & Metabolic Health, College of Medical, Veterinary & 
Life Science, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, G12 8QQ, U.K.
(2)Philips Research Europe, High Tech Campus, Eindhoven, 5656AE, The 
Netherlands.

AIM: PDE4D7 expression is significantly associated with prostate cancer (PCa) 
progression, representing an attractive prognostic biomarker. We sought to 
determine whether other genes in the PDE4D coding region were associated.
PATIENTS & METHODS: RNA from biopsy punch samples of resected tumor tissue was 
analyzed via RNA sequencing. RT-qPCR was used to determine PDE4D7 score.
RESULTS: Numerous genomic sequences within the PDE4D coding region on Chr5q12 
revealed similar mRNA expression profiles to PDE4D7. PART1 had a significantly 
similar expression pattern to PDE4D7 across samples, correlating with disease 
progression. However, many other genes also exhibited matched expression to 
PDE4D7, including miRNAs and lncRNAs.
CONCLUSION: These novel PDE4D7-associated genes, many of which are previously 
uncharacterized in cancer, represent putative PCa biomarkers and could have 
mechanistic roles in PCa progression.

Plain Language Summary: Identification of biological molecules that can indicate 
the presence of a disease are known as biomarkers and are valuable in medical 
research. For prostate cancer, the PDE4D7 gene is helpful for determining how 
the disease is getting worse. To understand more, this study explored whether 
genes located near PDE4D7 are also connected to prostate cancer. The analysis of 
tumor biopsies revealed that many of these nearby genes exhibited similar 
expression levels to PDE4D7, indicating their association with disease 
development. These findings suggest that several of these nearby genes could 
serve as potential biomarkers for prostate cancer by giving important clues to 
understand and detect the disease better.

© 2023 The Authors.

DOI: 10.2144/fsoa-2023-0064
PMCID: PMC10518809
PMID: 37752916

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no other relevant affiliations 
or financial involvement with any organization or entity with a financial 
interest in or financial conflict with the subject matter or materials discussed 
in the manuscript apart from those disclosed.


36. Prostate Int. 2023 Sep;11(3):150-158. doi: 10.1016/j.prnil.2023.06.002. Epub 
2023 Jun 21.

Screening and validation of novel serum panel of microRNA in stratification of 
prostate cancer.

Manoj A(1), Ahmad MK(1), Prasad G(1), Kumar D(1), Mahdi AA(1), Kumar M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, King George's Medical University, Lucknow, Uttar 
Pradesh, India.
(2)Department of Urology, King George's Medical University, Lucknow, Uttar 
Pradesh, India.

BACKGROUND: Owing to the heterogeneous nature of prostate cancer (PCa) and 
errors in the characterization of the disease, researchers have been trying to 
unveil molecular biomarkers like microRNA (miRNA) as diagnostic markers. The 
purpose of our study is to demonstrate the precision of a panel of miRNAs as 
biomarkers with diagnostic potential for risk stratification.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The present study demonstrates the comparative expression 
profiles of miRNA-141,-1290,-100, and -335 in both tissue and serum, including 
Benign Prostate Hyperplasia (BPH) and PCa, with healthy volunteers. Firstly, we 
demonstrate the expression of all miRNAs in the discovery cohort, including 
metastasis and benign tissue, and later validate their non-invasive diagnostic 
potential in BPH and PCa with healthy volunteers. MiRNA was isolated from tissue 
and serum to be quantified by RT-PCR and analyzed for biomarker potential by 
receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis, followed by targetome 
analysis of each miRNA.
RESULTS: Among the non-invasive miRNA assessed, it was seen that miRNA 141 
(P = 0.0003) and miRNA 1290 (P < 0.0001) are oncogenic with significantly higher 
expression, while miRNA 100 (P = 0.0002) and miRNA 335 are tumor suppressor, in 
PCa as compared to controls. While for BPH, miRNA 141 (P = 0.003) and miRNA 335 
(P = 0.0002) were found to be significantly oncogenic and tumor suppressors, 
respectively. The analysis of the ROC curve of panel miRNAs (miRNA-141,-1290, 
and -100) portrayed a significant area under the curve with greater sensitivity 
and specificity. Moreover, in-silico prediction of their respective targetomes 
represents their extensive involvement in PCa progression and various other 
cascades that aid in PCa networks.
CONCLUSIONS: To the best of our knowledge, we are going to report for the first 
time this panel of miRNA that can be used to accurately and efficiently diagnose 
BPH and PCa patients from healthy males.

© 2023 The Asian Pacific Prostate Society. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prnil.2023.06.002
PMCID: PMC10513910
PMID: 37745909

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


37. Sensors (Basel). 2023 Aug 30;23(17):7527. doi: 10.3390/s23177527.

Nanoribbon Biosensor-Based Detection of microRNA Markers of Prostate Cancer.

Ivanov YD(1), Malsagova KA(1), Goldaeva KV(1), Kapustina SI(1), Pleshakova 
TO(1), Popov VP(2), Kozlov AF(1), Galiullin RA(1), Shumov ID(1), Enikeev DV(3), 
Potoldykova NV(3), Ziborov VS(4), Petrov OF(4), Dolgoborodov AY(4), Glukhov 
AV(5), Novikov SV(6), Grabezhova VK(7), Yushkov ES(8), Konev VA(9), Kovalev 
OB(9), Archakov AI(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biomedical Chemistry (IBMC), 119121 Moscow, Russia.
(2)Rzhanov Institute of Semiconductor Physics, Siberian Branch of Russian 
Academy of Sciences, 630090 Novosibirsk, Russia.
(3)Institute for Urology and Reproductive Health, Sechenov University, 119992 
Moscow, Russia.
(4)Joint Institute for High Temperatures of Russian Academy of Sciences, 125412 
Moscow, Russia.
(5)JSC "Novosibirsk Plant of Semiconductor Devices with OKB", 630082 
Novosibirsk, Russia.
(6)Associate Printing-and-Publication Centre Technosphera, 125319 Moscow, 
Russia.
(7)JSC "Design Center for Biomicroelectronic Technologies "Vega"", 630082 
Novosibirsk, Russia.
(8)Department for Business Project Management, National Research Nuclear 
University "MEPhI", 115409 Moscow, Russia.
(9)Department of Infectious Diseases in Children, Faculty of Pediatrics, Pirogov 
Russian National Research Medical University, 117997 Moscow, Russia.

Prostate cancer (PC) is one of the major causes of death among elderly men. PC 
is often diagnosed later in progression due to asymptomatic early stages. Early 
detection of PC is thus crucial for effective PC treatment. The aim of this 
study is the simultaneous highly sensitive detection of a palette of 
PC-associated microRNAs (miRNAs) in human plasma samples. With this aim, a 
nanoribbon biosensor system based on "silicon-on-insulator" structures (SOI-NR 
biosensor) has been employed. In order to provide biospecific detection of the 
target miRNAs, the surface of individual nanoribbons has been sensitized with 
DNA oligonucleotide probes (oDNA probes) complementary to the target miRNAs. The 
lowest concentration of nucleic acids, detectable with our biosensor, has been 
found to be 1.1 × 10-17 M. The successful detection of target miRNAs, isolated 
from real plasma samples of PC patients, has also been demonstrated. We believe 
that the development of highly sensitive nanotechnology-based biosensors for the 
detection of PC markers is a step towards personalized medicine.

DOI: 10.3390/s23177527
PMCID: PMC10490786
PMID: 37687982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


38. J Biochem Mol Toxicol. 2023 Dec;37(12):e23493. doi: 10.1002/jbt.23493. Epub 2023 
Sep 4.

MicroRNA-155 downregulates long noncoding RNA prostate cancer-associated 
transcript 29 in hepatocellular carcinoma to suppress cancer cell invasion and 
migration.

Yang M(1), Yu P(1), Li P(1), Diao G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hepatology Surgery, Senior Department of Hepatology, The Fifth 
Medical Center of PLA General Hospital, Beijing, People's Republic of China.

Long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) prostate cancer-associated transcript 29 (PCAT29) is 
known to suppress several cancers, but its participation in hepatocellular 
carcinoma (HCC) remains elusive. This study tried to explore PCAT29 function in 
HCC. In this study, a total of 62 HCC patients were enrolled. Tissue samples 
were collected from all 62 patients to isolate RNA samples. Quantitative reverse 
transcription polymerase chain reaction was applied for the expression analysis 
of PCAT29 and microRNA-155 (miR-155) in these tissue samples. The 62 HCC 
patients were followed up for 5 years to explore the prognostic value of PCAT29 
for HCC. Correlations were analyzed using linear regression. IntaRNA 2.0 was 
used to predict the interaction between PCAT29 and miR-155. The role of PCAT29 
and miR-155 in regulating HCC cell invasion and migration was evaluated by 
Transwell assay. We found that PCAT29 expression was downregulated in HCC and 
miR-155 expression was upregulated in HCC compared to nontumor samples 
(p < 0.001). Downregulation of PCAT29 was found to be closely associated with 
poor survival of HCC patients. MiR-155 was inversely correlated with PCAT29. It 
was predicted that miR-155 could target PCAT29. In HCC cells, miR-155 
overexpression resulted in reduced PCAT29 expression (p < 0.05). MiR-155 
counteracted the inhibitory effects of PCAT29 overexpression on HCC cell 
migration and invasion. These results suggest that PCAT29 may be a potential 
prognostic biomarker and a novel therapeutic target for treating HCC.

© 2023 Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jbt.23493
PMID: 37661808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Appl Biochem Biotechnol. 2023 Sep 2. doi: 10.1007/s12010-023-04717-1. Online 
ahead of print.

Correction to: Construction of lncRNA/Pseudogene-miRNA Network Based on In 
Silico Approaches for Glycolysis Pathway to Identify Prostate 
Adenocarcinoma-Related Potential Biomarkers.

Khorsand M(1)(2), Mostafavi-Pour Z(1)(3), Tahmasebi A(4), Omidvar Kordshouli 
S(4), Mousavi P(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, School of Medicine, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(2)Department of Laboratory Science, Paramedical School, Shiraz University of 
Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(3)Autophagy Research Center, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, 
Iran.
(4)Institute of Biotechnology, Shiraz University, Shiraz, Iran.
(5)Molecular Medicine Research Center, Hormozgan Health Institute, Hormozgan 
University of Medical Sciences, Bandar Abbas, Iran. pegahmousavi2017@gmail.com.

Erratum for
    Appl Biochem Biotechnol. 2023 Aug 5;:

DOI: 10.1007/s12010-023-04717-1
PMID: 37659053


40. Cancers (Basel). 2023 Aug 17;15(16):4148. doi: 10.3390/cancers15164148.

Unraveling the Role of EV-Derived miR-150-5p in Prostate Cancer Metastasis and 
Its Association with High-Grade Gleason Scores: Implications for Diagnosis.

Cruz-Burgos M(1), Cortés-Ramírez SA(1), Losada-García A(1), Morales-Pacheco 
M(1), Martínez-Martínez E(2), Morales-Montor JG(3), Servín-Haddad A(3), 
Izquierdo-Luna JS(4), Rodríguez-Martínez G(1), Ramos-Godínez MDP(5), 
González-Covarrubias V(6), Cañavera-Constantino A(7), González-Ramírez I(8), Su 
B(9)(10), Leong HS(9)(10), Rodríguez-Dorantes M(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Oncogenómica, Instituto Nacional de Medicina Genómica 
(INMEGEN), Mexico City 14610, Mexico.
(2)Laboratory of Cell Communication and Extracellular Vesicles, Instituto 
Nacional de Medicina Genómica (INMEGEN), Mexico City 14610, Mexico.
(3)Urology Department, Hospital General Dr. Manuel Gea Gonzalez, Mexico City 
14080, Mexico.
(4)Hospital Central Militar, Servicio de Urología, Mexico City 11600, Mexico.
(5)Laboratorio de Microscopía Electrónica, Instituto Nacional de Cancerología, 
Mexico City 14080, Mexico.
(6)Laboratorio de Farmacogenómica, Instituto Nacional de Medicina Genómica 
(INMEGEN), Mexico City 14610, Mexico.
(7)Departamento de Anatomía Patológica, Centro Estatal de Oncología, Campeche 
24090, Mexico.
(8)Departamento de Atención a la Salud, Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana, 
Mexico City 14387, Mexico.
(9)Department of Medical Biophysics, Temerty Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, ON M5G 1L7, Canada.
(10)Biological Sciences Platform, Sunybrook Research Institute, Toronto, ON M4N 
3M5, Canada.

Metastasis remains the leading cause of mortality in prostate cancer patients. 
The presence of tumor cells in lymph nodes is an established prognostic 
indicator for several cancer types, such as melanoma, breast, oral, pancreatic, 
and cervical cancers. Emerging evidence highlights the role of microRNAs 
enclosed within extracellular vesicles as facilitators of molecular 
communication between tumors and metastatic sites in the lymph nodes. This study 
aims to investigate the potential diagnostic utility of EV-derived microRNAs in 
liquid biopsies for prostate cancer. By employing microarrays on 
paraffin-embedded samples, we characterized the microRNA expression profiles in 
metastatic lymph nodes, non-metastatic lymph nodes, and primary tumor tissues of 
prostate cancer. Differential expression of microRNAs was observed in metastatic 
lymph nodes compared to prostate tumors and non-metastatic lymph node tissues. 
Three microRNAs (miR-140-3p, miR-150-5p, and miR-23b-3p) were identified as 
differentially expressed between tissue and plasma samples. Furthermore, we 
evaluated the expression of these microRNAs in exosomes derived from prostate 
cancer cells and plasma samples. Intriguingly, high Gleason score samples 
exhibited the lowest expression of miR-150-5p compared to control samples. 
Pathway analysis suggested a potential regulatory role for miR-150-5p in the Wnt 
pathway and bone metastasis. Our findings suggest EV-derived miR-150-5p as a 
promising diagnostic marker for identifying patients with high-grade Gleason 
scores and detecting metastasis at an early stage.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers15164148
PMCID: PMC10453180
PMID: 37627176

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


41. Anal Chem. 2023 Sep 5;95(35):13220-13226. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.3c02231. 
Epub 2023 Aug 23.

miRNA Detection for Prostate Cancer Diagnosis by miRoll-Cas: miRNA Rolling 
Circle Transcription for CRISPR-Cas Assay.

Ma X(1), Zhou F(2), Yang D(1), Chen Y(1), Li M(1), Wang P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Institute of Molecular Medicine, Shanghai 
Key Laboratory for Nucleic Acid Chemistry and Nanomedicine, Center for DNA 
Information Storage, Renji Hospital, School of Medicine, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University, Shanghai 200127, China.
(2)School of Life Sciences, Shanghai University, Shanghai 200444, China.

Micro-RNA (miRNA) emerges as a promising type of biomarker for cancer diagnosis. 
There is an urgent need for developing rapid, convenient, and precise miRNA 
detection methods that may be conducted with limited laboratory facilities, 
especially in underdeveloped areas. Herein, we developed a miRNA detection 
method termed miRoll-Cas, where miRNA is first amplified by rolling circle 
transcription and then subject to CRISPR-Cas13a assay. Using miRoll-Cas, we 
realized the sensitive detection of multiple cancer-relevant miRNA markers 
(miR21, miR141, and Let7b) and specifically identified other variants of the 
Let7 family, which can accurately discriminate prostate cancer patients from 
healthy people. We envision that miRoll-Cas may be readily translated to 
clinical applications in the diagnosis of a variety of diseases beyond cancer.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.3c02231
PMID: 37609704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Eur J Pharmacol. 2023 Oct 15;957:175993. doi: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2023.175993. Epub 
2023 Aug 19.

Canagliflozin alleviates experimentally induced benign prostate hyperplasia in a 
rat model: exploring potential mechanisms involving mir-128b/EGFR/EGF and 
JAK2/STAT3 signaling pathways through in silico and in vivo investigations.

Elbaz EM(1), Darwish A(2), Gad AM(3), Abdel Rahman AAS(4), Safwat MH(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Cairo University, Cairo, 
Egypt. Electronic address: eman.el-baz@pharma.cu.edu.eg.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Sohag University, Sohag, 
Egypt. Electronic address: Alshaymaa.Darwish@pharm.sohag.edu.eg.
(3)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Egyptian Drug Authority (EDA) 
-Formerly NODCAR, Giza 12654, Egypt; Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, 
Faculty of Pharmacy, Sinai University, Kantara Branch, Ismailia, 41636, Egypt. 
Electronic address: Amany.gad@su.edu.eg.
(4)Department of Zoology, Faculty of Women for Arts, Science and Education, Ain 
Shams University, Cairo, Egypt.
(5)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Cairo University, Cairo, 
Egypt.

Benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) poses a significant health concern amongst 
elderly males. Canagliflozin (Cana), a selective sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 
(SGLT2) inhibitor, has a powerful anti-inflammatory influence. Nevertheless, its 
role in treating BPH has not been clarified. Therefore, the study aimed to 
investigate the potential ameliorative effect of Cana on experimentally induced 
BPH in rats and explore the underlying mechanisms compared to the standard 
finasteride (Fin). The study employed histological analysis, biochemical assays 
using ELISA, and western blotting. Animals were categorized into four groups: 
Control (2.5 ml/kg CMC, orally + 3 ml/kg olive oil, subcutaneous), BPH (3 mg/kg 
testosterone, subcutaneous + CMC orally), Fin-treated BPH (5 mg/kg, orally), and 
Cana-treated BPH (5 mg/kg, orally), for 28 days. The BPH group showed obvious 
BPH manifestations including an increase in prostate weight (PW), prostate index 
(PI), dihydrotestosterone (DHT) level, and histological aberrations compared to 
control. Fin and Cana therapy had a comparable impact. Cana treatment 
significantly reduced PW and PI, besides it improved prostatic biochemical, and 
histopathological features compared to BPH, consistent with in silico study 
findings. Cana was associated with downregulation of the androgen axis, 
increased miR-128b expression, with a lowered expression of epidermal growth 
factor (EGF) and its receptor. Phosphorylation of STAT3 and its downstream 
proliferative markers were significantly reduced suggesting apoptotic activity. 
Cana markedly rescued the BPH-induced upregulation of IL-1β, and iNOS levels. 
Altogether, the current study demonstrates that Cana could impede BPH 
progression, possibly by modulating miR-128b/EGFR/EGF and JAK2/STAT3 pathways 
and downregulating AR, cyclin D1, and PCNA immunoreactivity.

Copyright © 2023 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejphar.2023.175993
PMID: 37598927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


43. Cancers (Basel). 2023 Aug 4;15(15):3968. doi: 10.3390/cancers15153968.

Potential of miRNAs in Plasma Extracellular Vesicle for the Stratification of 
Prostate Cancer in a South African Population.

Temilola DO(1)(2), Wium M(1), Paccez J(1), Salukazana AS(3), Otu HH(4), Carbone 
GM(5), Kaestner L(3), Cacciatore S(1), Zerbini LF(1).

Author information:
(1)International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology (ICGEB), Cape 
Town 7925, South Africa.
(2)Integrative Biomedical Sciences Division, Faculty of Health Sciences, 
University of Cape Town, Cape Town 7925, South Africa.
(3)Division of Urology, University of Cape Town, Groote Schuur Hospital, Cape 
Town 7925, South Africa.
(4)Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of 
Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, NE 68588, USA.
(5)Institute of Oncology Research (IOR), Università della Svizzera italiana, 
6900 Bellinzona, Switzerland.

Prostate cancer (PCa) is the most common cause of cancer death among African 
men. The analysis of microRNAs (miRNAs) in plasma extracellular vesicles (EVs) 
can be utilized as a non-invasive tool for the diagnosis of PCa. In this study, 
we used small RNA sequencing to profile miRNAs cargo in plasma EVs from South 
African PCa patients. We evaluated the differential expression of miRNAs between 
low and high Gleason scores in the plasma EVs of South African patients and in 
the prostatic tissue from data available in the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) Data 
Portal. We identified 7 miRNAs differently expressed in both EVs and prostatic 
tissues. We evaluated their expression using qPCR in a larger cohort of 10 
patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) and 24 patients with PCa. Here, 
we reported that the ratio between two of these miRNAs (i.e., 
miR-194-5p/miR-16-5p) showed a higher concentration in PCa compared to BPH and 
in metastatic PCa compared to localized PCa. We explored for the first time the 
profiling of miRNAs cargo in plasma EVs as a tool for the identification of 
putative markers in the South African population. Our finding indicated the 
ratio miR-194-5p/miR-16-5p as a non-invasive marker for the evaluation of PCa 
aggressiveness in this population.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers15153968
PMCID: PMC10417259
PMID: 37568783

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


44. Appl Biochem Biotechnol. 2023 Aug 5. doi: 10.1007/s12010-023-04617-4. Online 
ahead of print.

Construction of lncRNA/Pseudogene-miRNA Network Based on In Silico Approaches 
for Glycolysis Pathway to Identify Prostate Adenocarcinoma-Related Potential 
Biomarkers.

Khorsand M(1)(2), Mostafavi-Pour Z(1)(3), Tahmasebi A(4), Omidvar Kordshouli 
S(4), Mousavi P(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, School of Medicine, Shiraz University of Medical 
Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(2)Department of Laboratory Science, Paramedical School, Shiraz University of 
Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.
(3)Autophagy Research Center, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, 
Iran.
(4)Institute of Biotechnology, Shiraz University, Shiraz, Iran.
(5)Molecular Medicine Research Center, Hormozgan Health Institute, Hormozgan 
University of Medical Sciences, Bandar Abbas, Iran. pegahmousavi2017@gmail.com.

Erratum in
    Appl Biochem Biotechnol. 2023 Sep 2;:

LncRNAs, pseudogenes, and miRNAs participate a fundamental function in 
tumorigenesis, metabolism, and invasion of cancer cells, although their 
regulation of tumor glycolysis in prostate adenocarcinoma (PRAD) is thoroughly 
not well studied. In this study, we applied transcriptomic, proteomic, and 
medical information to identify glycolysis-related key genes and modules 
associated with PRAD. Then, the glycolysis-related 
lncRNA/lncRNAs/pseudogenes-miRNA-mRNA network was constructed. Analysis of DNA 
methylation status and expression data determined a DNA methylation-dysregulated 
three-DE-mRNAs signature for predicting diagnosis, ANGPTL4, GNE, and HSPA in 
PRAD patients and healthy control. Several lncRNAs/pseudogenes, significantly 
correlated with the overall survival PVT1, CA5BP1, MIRLET7BHG, SNHG12, and 
ZNF37BP and disease-free survival status, MALAT1, GUSBP11, MIRLET7BHG, and 
SNHG1, of patients with PRAD were determined. The methylation profile of 
DE-lncRNA/pseudogenes was significantly proper for predicting PRAD prognostic 
model. The transcription level of 6 DE-mRNA ANGPTL4, QSOX1, BIK, CLDN3, DDIT4, 
and TFF3 was correlated with cancer-related fibroblast infiltration in PRAD. The 
mutated form of 7 mRNAs, COL5A1, IDH1, HK2, DDIT4, GNE, and QSOX1, was 
associated with PRAD. In addition to the glycolysis pathway, DE-RNAs play 
regulatory roles on several pathways, including DNA damage, RTK, cell cycle, 
RAS/MAPK, TSC/mTOR and PI3K/AKT, AR hormone, and EMT. Overall, our study 
improves our knowledge of the relation between lncRNAs/pseudogenes and miRNA 
related to glycolysis and PRAD pathogenesis. This schematics presents shows the 
websites and databases implemented in this research.

© 2023. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business 
Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature.

DOI: 10.1007/s12010-023-04617-4
PMID: 37542606


45. Cell Death Dis. 2023 Aug 4;14(8):502. doi: 10.1038/s41419-023-06007-4.

Exosomal PGAM1 promotes prostate cancer angiogenesis and metastasis by 
interacting with ACTG1.

Luo JQ(#)(1), Yang TW(#)(1), Wu J(1), Lai HH(1), Zou LB(1), Chen WB(1), Zhou 
XM(1), Lv DJ(2), Cen SR(1), Long ZN(1), Mao YY(1), Zheng PX(1), Su XH(1), Xian 
ZY(3), Shu FP(4), Mao XM(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Zhujiang Hospital, Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.
(2)Department of Urology, The Third Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou Medical 
University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.
(3)Department of Urology, Guangdong Provincial People's Hospital's Nanhai 
Hospital, 23 Pingzhouxiadong Road, Foshan, 528251, China. urologist@163.com.
(4)Department of Urology, Guangzhou Women and Children's Medical Center, 
National Children's Medical Center for South Central Region, Guangzhou Medical 
University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China. 15625060053@163.com.
(5)Department of Urology, Zhujiang Hospital, Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou, Guangdong, China. mxm@smu.edu.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Tumor-derived exosomes and their contents promote cancer metastasis. 
Phosphoglycerate mutase 1 (PGAM1) is involved in various cancer-related 
processes. Nevertheless, the underlying mechanism of exosomal PGAM1 in prostate 
cancer (PCa) metastasis remains unclear. In this study, we performed in vitro 
and in vivo to determine the functions of exosomal PGAM1 in the angiogenesis of 
patients with metastatic PCa. We performed Glutathione-S-transferase pulldown, 
co-immunoprecipitation, western blotting and gelatin degradation assays to 
determine the pathway mediating the effect of exosomal PGAM1 in PCa. Our results 
revealed a significant increase in exosomal PGAM1 levels in the plasma of 
patients with metastatic PCa compared to patients with non-metastatic PCa. 
Furthermore, PGAM1 was a key factor initiating PCa cell metastasis by promoting 
invadopodia formation and could be conveyed by exosomes from PCa cells to human 
umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). In addition, exosomal PGAM1 could 
bind to γ-actin (ACTG1), which promotes podosome formation and neovascular 
sprouting in HUVECs. In vivo results revealed exosomal PGAM1 enhanced lung 
metastasis in nude mice injected with PCa cells via the tail vein. In summary, 
exosomal PGAM1 promotes angiogenesis and could be used as a liquid biopsy marker 
for PCa metastasis.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41419-023-06007-4
PMCID: PMC10403531
PMID: 37542027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


46. Sci Rep. 2023 Jul 19;13(1):11623. doi: 10.1038/s41598-023-38834-y.

Microfluidic-based prostate cancer model for investigating the secretion of 
prostate-specific antigen and microRNAs in vitro.

Padmyastuti A(1), Sarmiento MG(1), Dib M(2), Ehrhardt J(3), Schoon J(4), Somova 
M(1), Burchardt M(1), Roennau C(1), Pinto PC(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University Medicine Greifswald, Fleischmannstraße 8, 
17475, Greifswald, Germany.
(2)Department of Ear, Nose and Throat Surgery, University Medicine Greifswald, 
Fleischmannstraße 8, 17475, Greifswald, Germany.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University Medicine Greifswald, 
Fleischmannstraße 8, 17475, Greifswald, Germany.
(4)Center for Orthopaedics, Trauma Surgery and Rehabilitation Medicine, 
University Medicine Greifswald, Fleichmannstraße 8, 17475, Greifswald, Germany.
(5)Department of Urology, University Medicine Greifswald, Fleischmannstraße 8, 
17475, Greifswald, Germany. pintop@uni-greifswald.de.

The study of prostate cancer in vitro relies on established cell lines that lack 
important physiological characteristics, such as proper polarization and 
expression of relevant biomarkers. Microphysiological systems (MPS) can 
replicate cancer microenvironments and lead to cellular phenotypic changes that 
better represent organ physiology in vitro. In this study, we developed an MPS 
model comprising conventional prostate cancer cells to evaluate their activity 
under dynamic culture conditions. Androgen-sensitive (LNCaP) and 
androgen-insensitive (PC3) cells were grown in conventional and 3D cultures, 
both static and dynamic. Cell morphology, the secretion of prostate-specific 
antigen, and the expression of key prostate markers and microRNAs were analyzed. 
LNCaP formed spheroids in 3D and MPS cultures, with morphological changes 
supported by the upregulation of cytokeratins and adhesion proteins. LNCaP also 
maintained a constant prostate-specific antigen secretion in MPS. PC3 cells did 
not develop complex structures in 3D and MPS cultures. PSA expression at the 
gene level was downregulated in LNCaP-MPS and considerably upregulated in 
PC3-MPS. MicroRNA expression was altered by the 3D static and dynamic culture, 
both intra- and extracellularly. MicroRNAs associated with prostate cancer 
progression were mostly upregulated in LNCaP-MPS. Overall dynamic cell culture 
substantially altered the morphology and expression of LNCaP cells, arguably 
augmenting their prostate cancer phenotype. This novel approach demonstrates 
that microRNA expression in prostate cancer cells is sensitive to external 
stimuli and that MPS can effectively promote important physiological changes in 
conventional prostate cancer models.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-023-38834-y
PMCID: PMC10356943
PMID: 37468746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


47. Biol Direct. 2023 Jul 11;18(1):38. doi: 10.1186/s13062-023-00393-7.

Pro-tumorigenic role of lnc-ZNF30-3 as a sponge counteracting miR-145-5p in 
prostate cancer.

Le Hars M(#)(1), Castro-Vega LJ(#)(2), Rajabi F(1)(3), Tabatadze D(4), Romero 
M(5), Pinskaya M(6), Groisman I(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Institut Curie, Sorbonne Universités, Paris Sciences et Lettres Research 
University, CNRS UMR3244, Paris, France.
(2)Paris Brain Institute (ICM), Hôpital Pitié-Salpêtrière, Inserm U1127, CNRS 
UMR7225, Sorbonne Universités, Paris, France.
(3)Cancer Genomics lab, Inserm U981, Gustave Roussy Cancer Center Grand Paris, 
Villejuif, France.
(4)ZATA Pharmaceuticals Inc, Worcester, MA, USA.
(5)Department of Pathology, Hospital Universitario-Fundación Santa Fe de Bogotá, 
Bogotá, Colombia.
(6)Institut Curie, Sorbonne Universités, Paris Sciences et Lettres Research 
University, CNRS UMR3244, Paris, France. marina.pinskaya@curie.fr.
(7)Institut Curie, Sorbonne Universités, Paris Sciences et Lettres Research 
University, CNRS UMR3244, Paris, France. irina.groisman@curie.fr.
(8)Cancer Genomics lab, Inserm U981, Gustave Roussy Cancer Center Grand Paris, 
Villejuif, France. irina.groisman@curie.fr.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Prostate cancer remains one of the deadliest neoplasms in developed 
countries. Identification of new molecular markers that predict the onset and 
progression of the disease could improve its clinical management. Low miR-145-5p 
expression is consistently found in primary tumors and metastases, but the 
regulatory mechanisms governing its functions remain largely unknown.
METHODS: Bioinformatics analysis was conducted to identify [1] a set of novel 
potential competing endogenous lncRNAs for sponging of miRNA-145-5p in prostate 
cancer and [2] miR-145-5p and other EMT-related miRNAs response elements in 
lnc-ZNF30-3. Quantification of miR-145-5p, lnc-ZNF30-3, and TWIST1 expression 
levels in tumor tissues in RNA sequencing datasets of our and TCGA PRAD cohorts 
revealed a correlation with clinical outcome of prostate cancer patients. 
Biochemical and cell biology approaches, such as RNA pull-down, western blot, 
immunostaining, and wound healing assays were used for evaluation of the impact 
of TWIST1/miR-145/ lnc-ZNF30-3 interactions in prostate cancer cells altered in 
miRNA and lncRNA expression.
RESULTS: We identified a few potential lncRNA sponges of miR-145-5p, including 
lnc-ZNF30-3. It contains five response elements for miR-145-5p, but also other 
miRNAs targeting EMT transcription factors. Lnc-ZNF30-3 is significantly 
upregulated in prostate cancer cell lines and tumor tissues, and its high 
expression is correlated with poor patient prognosis. We demonstrated that 
lnc-ZNF30-3 is associated with AGO2 and specifically interacts with the 
miR-145-5p seed region. Knockdown of lnc-ZNF30-3 results in decreased migration 
of prostate cancer cells and downregulation of EMT drivers such as TWIST1 and 
ZEB1 at both the RNA and protein levels. These phenotypic and molecular features 
of lnc-ZNF30-3-depleted cells are partially rescued by miR-145-5p inhibition.
CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, our results point to lnc-ZNF30-3 as a novel competing 
endogenous lncRNA for miR-145-5p and other miRNAs that target TWIST1 as well as 
other EMT transcription factors. Prostate cancer patients with high lncRNA 
expression in primary tumors show lower survival rate suggesting that 
lnc-ZNF30-3 may contribute to prostate cancer progression and metastasis.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13062-023-00393-7
PMCID: PMC10334624
PMID: 37434219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


48. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2023 Jun 1;24(6):2105-2119. doi: 
10.31557/APJCP.2023.24.6.2105.

Deregulation of miR-10b and miR-21 Correlate with Cancer Stem Cells Expansion 
through the Apoptotic Pathway in Prostate Cancer.

Shukla KK(1), Choudhary GR(2), Sankanagoudar S(1), Misra S(3), Vishnoi JR(4), 
Pareek P(5), Pilla KK(1), Pandey SN(6), Sharma P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur, 
Rajasthan, India.
(2)Department of Urology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur, 
Rajasthan, India.
(3)Department of Surgical Oncology, Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical University, 
Lucknow, India.
(4)Department of Surgical Oncology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India.
(5)Department of Radiation Oncology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Jodhpur, Rajasthan, India.
(6)Department of Pathology (Transplant Immunology and Genetics) Muljibhai Patel 
Urology Hospital, Dr. Virendra Desai Road, Nadiad Gujarat-387001 India.

BACKGROUND: MicroRNAs are small, non-coding RNA molecules that regulate 
important cellular processes such as tumorigenesis, cell proliferation, and 
apoptosis. Cancer stem cells are a subset of cells that control metastasis and 
cell proliferation. In this study, we focus on the roles of miR-10b, miR-21 and 
correlate with cancer stem cells through the apoptotic pathway in different 
stages of prostate cancer (PCa).
METHODS: In total, 45 patients, each group with Benign prostatic hyperplasia 
(BPH), localised PCa, and metastatic PCa, were recruited. MicroRNA and gene 
expression were estimated through quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Flow 
cytometry was used to characterise prostate cancer stem cells (PCSCs), estimate 
reactive oxygen species (ROS), apoptosis and chemiluminescent immunoassay was 
used to estimate interleukin 6 (IL-6), tumour necrosis factor (TNF-α), 
prostate-specific antigen (PSA), and testosterone.
RESULTS: The fold change mean expressions of miR-21, miR-10b, Cytochrome C, and 
B-cell lymphoma 2 (BCL-2) were significantly upregulated in localised and 
metastatic PCa compared with BPH. In contrast, the mean fold change expressions 
of Bcl-2-associated X protein (BAX), Caspase-3, Caspase-9, and Second 
mitochondria-derived activator of caspase (SMAC) were lower in localised and 
metastatic PCa compared to BPH. The levels of IL-6, TNF-α, ROS, PSA and 
testosterone also showed a significant increase while apoptosis was decreased in 
both localized PCa and metastatic PCa as compared with BPH. In bioinformatics 
analyses, we found a similar pattern of miRNAs and gene expression in PCa 
databases. Our study also found a high expression of CD44+/CD24- and 
CD44+/CD133+ in localised and metastatic PCa compared with BPH.
CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest miR-10b and miR-21 promote PCSCs and may target 
apoptotic genes involved in PCa pathogenesis; these miRNAs could be used as 
diagnosis biomarkers of PCa. In PCa pathogenesis and PCSCs regulation, the 
interaction between these two players is crucial and will help develop new PCa 
therapeutic targets.

DOI: 10.31557/APJCP.2023.24.6.2105
PMCID: PMC10505899
PMID: 37378942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: All authors have read, approved, and agree with 
the manuscript’s content. The authors of the manuscript also have no conflict of 
interest.


49. J Cell Biochem. 2023 Aug;124(8):1135-1144. doi: 10.1002/jcb.30435. Epub 2023 Jun 
19.

Fibroblast-derived exosomal microRNA regulates NKX3-1 expression in 
androgen-sensitive, androgen receptor-dependent prostate cancer cells.

Matsuda C(1), Ishii K(1)(2), Nakagawa Y(3), Shirai T(1), Sasaki T(4), Hirokawa 
YS(1), Iguchi K(5), Watanabe M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncologic Pathology, Mie University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Mie, Japan.
(2)Department of Nursing, Nagoya University of Arts and Sciences, Aichi, Japan.
(3)Faculty of Medical Technology, Gifu University of Medical Science, Gifu, 
Japan.
(4)Department of Nephro-Urologic Surgery and Andrology, Mie University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Mie, Japan.
(5)Laboratory of Community Pharmacy, Gifu Pharmaceutical University, Gifu, 
Japan.

Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) targeting androgen production and androgen 
receptor (AR) signaling is the primary antihormonal therapy in the treatment of 
advanced prostate cancer (PCa). However, no clinically established molecular 
biomarkers have been identified to predict the effectiveness of ADT before 
starting ADT. The tumor microenvironment of PCa contains fibroblasts that 
regulate PCa progression by producing multiple soluble factors. We have 
previously reported that AR-activating factor-secreted fibroblasts increase the 
responsiveness of androgen-sensitive, AR-dependent PCa cells to ADT. Thus, we 
hypothesized that fibroblast-derived soluble factors may affect cancer cell 
differentiation by regulating cancer-related gene expression in PCa cells and 
that the biochemical characteristics of fibroblasts may be used to predict the 
effectiveness of ADT. Here, we investigated the effects of normal fibroblasts 
(PrSC cells) and three PCa patient-derived fibroblast lines (pcPrF-M5, -M28, and 
-M31 cells) on the expression of cancer-related genes in androgen-sensitive, 
AR-dependent human PCa cells (LNCaP cells) and three sublines showing different 
androgen sensitivities and AR dependencies. The mRNA expression of the tumor 
suppressor gene NKX3-1 in LNCaP cells and E9 cells (which show low androgen 
sensitivity and AR dependency) was significantly increased by treatment with 
conditioned media from PrSC and pcPrF-M5 cells but not from pcPrF-M28 and 
pcPrF-M31 cells. Notably, no upregulation of NKX3-1 was observed in F10 cells 
(AR-V7-expressing, AR-independent cells with low androgen sensitivity) and AIDL 
cells (androgen-insensitive, AR-independent cells). Among 81 common 
fibroblast-derived exosomal microRNAs that showed 0.5-fold lower expression in 
pcPrF-M28 and pcPrF-M31 cells than in PrSC and pcPrF-M5 cells, miR-449c-3p and 
miR-3121-3p were found to target NKX3-1. In only LNCaP cells, the NKX3-1 mRNA 
expression was significantly increased by transfection of an miR-3121-3p mimic 
but not that of the miR-449c-3p mimic. Thus, fibroblast-derived exosomal 
miR-3121-3p may be involved in preventing the oncogenic dedifferentiation of PCa 
cells by targeting NKX3-1 in androgen-sensitive, AR-dependent PCa cells.

© 2023 The Authors. Journal of Cellular Biochemistry published by Wiley 
Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/jcb.30435
PMID: 37334663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Int J Mol Sci. 2023 Jun 1;24(11):9633. doi: 10.3390/ijms24119633.

Intratumoral Restoration of miR-137 Plus Cholesterol Favors Homeostasis of the 
miR-137/Coactivator p160/AR Axis and Negatively Modulates Tumor Progression in 
Advanced Prostate Cancer.

Pimenta R(1)(2), Mioshi CM(1)(3), Gonçalves GL(4), Candido P(1), Camargo JA(1), 
Guimarães VR(1), Chiovatto C(1)(5), Ghazarian V(1), Romão P(1), da Silva 
KS(1)(5), Dos Santos GA(1), Silva IA(1), Srougi M(1)(2), Nahas WC(6), Leite 
KR(1), Viana NI(1)(7), Reis ST(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratório de Investigação Médica 55 (LIM55), Hospital das Clinicas HCFMUSP, 
Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo 01246903, SP, 
Brazil.
(2)D'Or Institute for Research and Education (ID'Or), São Paulo 04501000, SP, 
Brazil.
(3)Campus Santo André, Universidade Federal do ABC, Santo André 09210580, SP, 
Brazil.
(4)Laboratory of Renal Physiology, Department of Physiology and Biophysics, 
Institute of Biomedical Sciences, University of São Paulo, São Paulo 05508000, 
SP, Brazil.
(5)Campus Ipiranga, Centro Universitário São Camilo, São Paulo 04263200, SP, 
Brazil.
(6)Uro-Oncology Group, Urology Department, Institute of Cancer Estate of São 
Paulo (ICESP), São Paulo 01246000, SP, Brazil.
(7)Campus Passos, Universidade do Estado de Minas Gerais-UEMG, Passos 37900106, 
MG, Brazil.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have gained a prominent role as biomarkers in prostate cancer 
(PCa). Our study aimed to evaluate the potential suppressive effect of miR-137 
in a model of advanced PCa with and without diet-induced hypercholesterolemia. 
In vitro, PC-3 cells were treated with 50 pmol of mimic miR-137 for 24 h, and 
gene and protein expression levels of SRC-1, SRC-2, SRC-3, and AR were evaluated 
by qPCR and immunofluorescence. We also assessed migration rate, invasion, 
colony-forming ability, and flow cytometry assays (apoptosis and cell cycle) 
after 24 h of miRNA treatment. For in vivo experiments, 16 male NOD/SCID mice 
were used to evaluate the effect of restoring miR-137 expression together with 
cholesterol. The animals were fed a standard (SD) or hypercholesterolemic (HCOL) 
diet for 21 days. After this, we xenografted PC-3 LUC-MC6 cells into their 
subcutaneous tissue. Tumor volume and bioluminescence intensity were measured 
weekly. After the tumors reached 50 mm3, we started intratumor treatments with a 
miR-137 mimic, at a dose of 6 μg weekly for four weeks. Ultimately, the animals 
were killed, and the xenografts were resected and analyzed for gene and protein 
expression. The animals' serum was collected to evaluate the lipid profile. The 
in vitro results showed that miR-137 could inhibit the transcription and 
translation of the p160 family, SRC-1, SRC-2, and SRC-3, and indirectly reduce 
the expression of AR. After these analyses, it was determined that increased 
miR-137 inhibits cell migration and invasion and impacts reduced proliferation 
and increased apoptosis rates. The in vivo results demonstrated that tumor 
growth was arrested after the intratumoral restoration of miR-137, and 
proliferation levels were reduced in the SD and HCOL groups. Interestingly, the 
tumor growth retention response was more significant in the HCOL group. We 
conclude that miR-137 is a potential therapeutic miRNA that, in association with 
androgen precursors, can restore and reinstate the AR-mediated axis of 
transcription and transactivation of androgenic pathway homeostasis. Further 
studies involving the miR-137/coregulator/AR/cholesterol axis should be 
conducted to evaluate this miR in a clinical context.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms24119633
PMCID: PMC10253647
PMID: 37298588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. Pathol Res Pract. 2024 Mar 27;256:155277. doi: 10.1016/j.prp.2024.155277. Online 
ahead of print.

Identification of miR-125a and miR-106b signature as a potential diagnostic 
biomarker in breast cancer tissues.

Ghafouri-Fard S(1), Hussen BM(2), Eslami S(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Cihan University-Erbil, Erbil, Kurdistan 
Region, Iraq; Department of Clinical Analysis, College of Pharmacy, Hawler 
Medical University, Erbil, Kurdistan Region, Iraq. Electronic address: 
bashdar.hussen@hmu.edu.krd.
(3)Department of Medical Biotechnology, School of Medicine, Alborz University of 
Medical Sciences, Karaj, Islamic Republic of Iran; Non-communicable Diseases 
Research Center, Alborz University of Medical Sciences, Karaj, Islamic Republic 
of Iran.

MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have essential roles in the etiology of breast cancer and are 
regarded as possible markers in this malignancy. In order to find new markers 
for breast cancer, the current study has measured expression level of four 
miRNAs, namely miR-125a, miR-106b, miR-96 and miR-92a-3p in the paired breast 
samples. Expression levels of miR-125a and miR-106b were higher in tumoral 
tissues compared with control tissues (Expression ratios (95% CI) = 4.01 
(1.96-8.19) and 3.9 (1.95-7.81); P values = 0.0005 and 0.0003, respectively). 
miR-106b and miR-125a differentiated between malignant and non-malignant tissues 
with AUC values of 0.7 and 0.67, respectively. We detected association between 
expression of miR-106b and clinical stage (P = 0.03), in a way that its 
expression was the lowest in the advanced stages. Finally, significant 
relationships were found between miR-96 and miR-125a in both tumoral and 
non-tumoral specimens (ρ = 0.76 and 0.69, respectively). This nonparametric 
measure of rank correlation also showed relationship between miR-106b and miR-96 
in both sets of samples (ρ = 0.63 and 0.61, respectively). Cumulatively, the 
assessed miRNAs, particularly miR-125a and miR-106b are putative targets for 
further expression and functional assays in breast cancer.

Copyright © 2024. Published by Elsevier GmbH.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prp.2024.155277
PMID: 38579577

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare they have no conflict of interest. Competing interests The authors 
declare they have nothing to report.


2. Indian J Clin Biochem. 2024 Apr;39(2):214-220. doi: 10.1007/s12291-023-01129-0. 
Epub 2023 Mar 30.

Circulating miRNA-21 Levels in Breast Cancer Patients Before and After 
Chemotherapy and Its Association with Clinical Improvement.

Sukhija S(1), Purohit P(2), Pareek P(3), Garg PK(4), Vishnoi JR(5), Elhence 
PA(6), Varthya SB(1), Sharma P(2), Ambwani S(1), Charan J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur, 
Jodhpur, India.
(2)Department of Biochemistry, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Jodhpur, 
Jodhpur, India.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Jodhpur, Jodhpur, India.
(4)Department of Diagnostic and Intervention Radiology, All India Institute of 
Medical Sciences, Jodhpur, Jodhpur, India.
(5)Department of Surgical Oncology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Jodhpur, Jodhpur, India.
(6)Department of Pathology and Lab Medicine, All India Institute of Medical 
Sciences, Jodhpur, Jodhpur, India.

Breast cancer is the most frequent type of cancer in women, many patients 
experience recurrences and metastasis. miR-21 (microRNA-21) as biomarker is 
under investigation for breast cancer. At present, there is very limited 
information available regarding effect of chemotherapy on miR-21 expression in 
breast cancer and its correlation with the clinical improvement. Hence, this 
study was planned to evaluate the effect of chemotherapy on miR-21 in metastatic 
breast cancer and its relationship with the clinical outcome. Females, 
aged-18-90 years diagnosed with Invasive Ductal Carcinoma of breast and 
candidate of neoadjuvant chemotherapy including Adriamycin (60 mg/m2), 
Cyclophosphamide (600 mg/m2) with or without Taxane (75-175 mg/m2) were included 
in the study. Before and after 42 days of staring of chemotherapy sample was 
collected for circulatory miR-21 and RECIST 1.1 criteria was applied to assess 
the clinical status. Blood samples for routine clinical biomarkers including 
liver function test and renal function tests was also collected. miR-21 
expression before and after chemotherapy was assessed using standard method 
based on real time PCR. Expression of miR-21, RECIST criteria and other liver 
and kidney related biomarkers were compared before and after chemotherapy. After 
neoadjuvant chemotherapy expression of miR-21 was significantly increased by 
5.65-fold. There was significant improvement in clinical scores based on RECIST 
criteria (0.046). No significant correlation was observed between miR-21 
expression and difference in RECIST score (r = - 0.122, p = 0.570). Neoadjuvant 
chemotherapy causes clinical improvement in breast cancer patients however it is 
not correlated with the miR-21 expression which significantly increased after 
chemotherapy.

© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Association of Clinical Biochemists 
of India 2023. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) 
holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the 
author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted 
manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such 
publishing agreement and applicable law.

DOI: 10.1007/s12291-023-01129-0
PMCID: PMC10987404
PMID: 38577141

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interestNone Declared.


3. Indian J Clin Biochem. 2024 Apr;39(2):226-232. doi: 10.1007/s12291-022-01101-4. 
Epub 2022 Nov 27.

Biochemical Significance of miR-155 and miR-375 as Diagnostic Biomarkers and 
Their Correlation with the NF-κβ/TNF-α Axis in Breast Cancer.

Abdel-Samed SA(1), Hozyen WG(1), Shaaban SM(2), Hasona NA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, Beni-Suef University, Salah 
Salim St., Beni-Suef, 62511 Egypt.
(2)Department of Oncology, Faculty of Medicine, Beni-Suef University, Beni Suef, 
Egypt.

Serum microRNAs (miRs) have recently been proposed as potential cancer 
biomarkers for early detection. Thyroid hormones play a crucial role in human 
health, and their alterations are linked to a range of diseases, such as breast 
cancer. The relationship between NF-κβ, TNF-α, and non-coding RNAs is an urgent 
need for clinical trials. This study aimed to investigate serum expression folds 
of miR-155 and miR-375 and their correlations with NF-κβ and TNF-α in breast 
cancer patients. The current study was conducted on 183 unrelated female 
participants. Serum levels of free T3 and T4, as well as expression folds of 
miR-155 and miR-375, were significantly higher in patients with fibroadenoma and 
breast cancer, despite TSH being significantly lower. Additionally, the 
signaling of TNF-alpha and NF-κβ were found to be significantly upregulated in 
the serum of patients with breast cancer. Up-regulation of miR-155 and miR-375 
expression may be diagnostic biomarkers of breast cancer, pointing to the role 
of NF-κβ and TNF-α expression in miR-155 and miR-375 expression as therapeutic 
targets of breast cancer in the future.

© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Association of Clinical Biochemists 
of India 2022. Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) 
holds exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the 
author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted 
manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of such 
publishing agreement and applicable law.

DOI: 10.1007/s12291-022-01101-4
PMCID: PMC10987425
PMID: 38577133

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interestsThe authors declare that they 
have no competing interests.


4. Biosystems. 2024 Mar 31;238:105200. doi: 10.1016/j.biosystems.2024.105200. 
Online ahead of print.

An integrated approach to understand the regulatory role of miR-27 family in 
breast cancer metastasis.

Chakraborty S(1), Paul U(1), Banerjee S(1), Saha D(1), Banerjee S(2).

Author information:
(1)School of BioSciences and Technology, Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT), 
Vellore, Tamilnadu, 632014, India.
(2)School of BioSciences and Technology, Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT), 
Vellore, Tamilnadu, 632014, India. Electronic address: satarupabando@gmail.com.

One of the prime reasons of increasing breast cancer mortality is metastasizing 
cancer cells. Owing to the side effects of clinically available drugs to treat 
breast cancer metastasis, it is of utmost importance to understand the 
underlying biogenesis of breast cancer tumorigenesis. In-silico identification 
of potential RNAs might help in utilizing the miR-27 family as a therapeutic 
target in breast cancer. The experimentally verified common interacting mRNAs 
for miR27 family are retrieved from three publicly available databases- 
TargetScan, miRDB and miRTarBase. Finally on comparing the common genes with 
HCMDB and GEPIA data, four breast cancer-associated differentially expressed 
metastatic mRNAs (GATA3, ENAH, ITGA2 and SEMA4D) are obtained. Corresponding to 
the miR27 family and associated mRNAs, interacting drugs are retrieved from 
Sm2mir and CTDbase, respectively. The interaction network-based approach was 
utilized to obtain the hub RNAs and triad modules by employing the 'Cytohubba' 
and 'MClique' plugins, respectively in Cytoscape. Further, sample-, subclass- 
and promoter methylation-based expression analyses reveals GATA3 and ENAH to be 
the most significant mRNAs in breast cancer metastasis having >10% genetic 
alteration in both METABRIC Vs TCGA datasets as per their oncoprint analysis via 
cBioPortal. Additionally, survival analysis in Oncolnc reveals SEMA4D as 
survival biomarker. Interactions among the miR27 family, their target mRNAs and 
drugs interacting with miRNAs and mRNAs can be extensively explored in both 
in-vivo and in-vitro setups to assess their therapeutic potential in the 
diminution of breast cancer.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biosystems.2024.105200
PMID: 38565418

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


5. Heliyon. 2024 Mar 15;10(7):e27357. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e27357. 
eCollection 2024 Apr 15.

Identification and verification of AK4 as a protective immune-related biomarker 
in adipose-derived stem cells and breast cancer.

Lu W(1), Yang Z(1), Wang M(1), Li S(2), Bi H(3), Yang X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hemangioma and Vascular Malformation, Plastic Surgery Hospital, 
Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, 
100144, China.
(2)Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, 4+4 M.D. 
Program, Beijing, 100144, China.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Plastic Surgery Hospital, Chinese Academy of 
Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, 100144, China.

BACKGROUND: Breast cancer (BC) remains the most common cancer among women, and 
novel post-surgical reconstruction techniques, including autologous fat 
transplantation, have emerged. While Adipose-derived stem cells (ADSCs) are 
known to impact the viability of fat grafts, their influence on breast cancer 
progression remains unclear. This study aims to elucidate the genetic interplay 
between ADSCs and breast cancer, focusing on potential therapeutic targets.
METHODS: Using the GEO and TCGA databases, we pinpointed differentially 
expressed (DE) mRNAs, miRNAs, lncRNAs, and pseudogenes of ADSCs and BC. We 
performed functional enrichment analysis and constructed protein-protein 
interaction (PPI), RNA binding protein (RBP)-pseudogene-mRNA, and 
lncRNA-miRNA-transcription factor (TF)-gene networks. Our study delved into the 
correlation of AK4 expression with 33 different malignancies and examined its 
impact on prognostic outcomes across a pan-cancer cohort. Additionally, we 
scrutinized immune infiltration, microsatellite instability, and tumor 
mutational burden, and conducted single-cell analysis to further understand the 
implications of AK4 expression. We identified novel sample subtypes based on hub 
genes using the ConsensusClusterPlus package and examined their association with 
immune infiltration. The random forest algorithm was used to screen DE mRNAs 
between subtypes to validate the powerful prognostic prediction ability of the 
artificial neural network.
RESULTS: Our analysis identified 395 DE mRNAs, 3 DE miRNAs, 84 DE lncRNAs, and 
26 DE pseudogenes associated with ADSCs and BC. Of these, 173 mRNAs were 
commonly regulated in both ADSCs and breast cancer, and 222 exhibited 
differential regulation. The PPI, RBP-pseudogene-mRNA, and lncRNA-miRNA-TF-gene 
networks suggested AK4 as a key regulator. Our findings support AK4 as a 
promising immune-related therapeutic target for a wide range of malignancies. We 
identified 14 characteristic genes based on the AK4-related cluster using the 
random forest algorithm. Our artificial neural network yielded excellent 
diagnostic performance in the testing cohort with AUC values of 0.994, 0.973, 
and 0.995, indicating its ability to distinguish between breast cancer and 
non-breast cancer cases.
CONCLUSIONS: Our research sheds light on the dual role of ADSCs in BC at the 
genetic level and identifies AK4 as a key protective mRNA in breast cancer. We 
found that AK4 significantly predicts cancer prognosis and immunotherapy, 
indicating its potential as a therapeutic target.

© 2024 Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e27357
PMCID: PMC10980947
PMID: 38560200

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared 
to influence the work reported in this paper.


6. Breast Cancer. 2024 Mar 30. doi: 10.1007/s12282-024-01563-9. Online ahead of 
print.

Prospects for liquid biopsy using microRNA and extracellular vesicles in breast 
cancer.

Ochiya T(1), Hashimoto K(2), Shimomura A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Medicine, Center for Future Medical 
Research, Institute of Medical Science, Tokyo Medical University, 6-7-1 
Nishishinjuku, Shinjyuku-ku, Tokyo, 160-0023, Japan. tochiya@tokyo-med.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Breast Surgery, National Center for Global Health and Medicine, 
1-21-1 Toyama, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, 162-8655, Japan.
(3)Department of Breast and Medical Oncology, Genetic Medicine, General Medical 
Oncology, National Center for Global Health and Medicine, 1-21-1 Toyama, 
Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo, 162-8655, Japan.

Among the analytes circulating in body fluids, microRNAs, a type of non-coding 
RNA and known to exist 2655 in primates, have attracted attention as a novel 
biomarker for cancer screening. MicroRNAs are signaling molecules with important 
gene expression regulatory functions that can simultaneously control many gene 
functions and multiple different pathways in living organisms. These microRNAs 
are transported in extracellular vesicles (EVs), which are lipid bilayers with 
50-150 nm in diameter, and are used as communication tools between cells. 
Furthermore, the EVs that carry these microRNAs circulate in the bloodstream and 
have other important implications for understanding the pathogenesis and 
diagnosis of breast cancer. The greatest benefit from cancer screening is the 
reduction in breast cancer mortality rate through early detection. Other 
benefits include reduced incidence of breast cancer, improved quality of life, 
prognosis prediction, contribution to personalized medicine, and relative 
healthcare cost containment. This paper outlines the latest developments in 
liquid biopsy for breast cancer, especially focusing on microRNA and EV 
diagnostics.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s12282-024-01563-9
PMID: 38554234


7. Aging (Albany NY). 2024 Mar 22;16. doi: 10.18632/aging.205683. Online ahead of 
print.

Identification and validation of DHCR7 as a diagnostic biomarker involved in the 
proliferation and mitochondrial function of breast cancer.

Wang Y(1)(2), Fan J(3), Liu Y(4), Du J(5), Liang B(1), Wang H(6), Song Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Oncology, Shaanxi Provincial People&#x2019;s Hospital, 
Shaanxi, China.
(2)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Affiliated Hospital of Yan&#x2019;an 
University, Shaanxi, China.
(3)Department of Geriatric Neurology, Shaanxi Provincial People&#x2019;s 
Hospital, Shaanxi, China.
(4)Department of Pathology, Affiliated Hospital of Yan&#x2019;an University, 
Shaanxi, China.
(5)Department of Health Examination Center, Shaanxi Provincial People&#x2019;s 
Hospital, Shaanxi, China.
(6)Department of Breast Disease Center, Shaanxi Provincial Tumor Hospital, 
Shaanxi, China.

BACKGROUND: Energy metabolism has a complex intersection with pathogenesis and 
development of breast cancer (BC). This allows for the possibility of 
identifying energy-metabolism-related genes (EMRGs) as novel prognostic 
biomarkers for BC. 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase (DHCR7) is a key enzyme of 
cholesterol biosynthesis involved in many cancers, and in this paper, we 
investigate the effects of DHCR7 on the proliferation and mitochondrial function 
of BC.
METHODS: EMRGs were identified from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and MSigDB 
databases using bioinformatics methods. Key EMRGs of BC were then identified and 
validated by functional enrichment analysis, interaction analysis, weighted gene 
co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), least absolute shrinkage and selection 
operator (LASSO) regression, Cox analysis, and immune infiltration. Western 
blot, qRT-PCR, immunohistochemistry (IHC), MTT assay, colony formation assay and 
flow cytometry assay were then used to analyze DHCR7 expression and its 
biological effects on BC cells.
RESULTS: We identified 31 EMRGs in BC. These 31 EMRGs and related transcription 
factors (TFs), miRNAs, and drugs were enriched in glycerophospholipid 
metabolism, glycoprotein metabolic process, breast cancer, and cell cycle. 
Crucially, DHCR7 was a key EMRG in BC identified and validated by WGCNA, LASSO 
regression and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. High 
DHCR7 expression was significantly associated with tumor immune infiltration 
level, pathological M, and poor prognosis in BC. In addition, DHCR7 knockdown 
inhibited cell proliferation, induced apoptosis and affected mitochondrial 
function in BC cells.
CONCLUSIONS: DHCR7 was found to be a key EMRG up-regulated in BC cells. This 
study is the first to our knowledge to report that DHCR7 acts as an oncogene in 
BC, which might become a novel therapeutic target for BC patients.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.205683
PMID: 38526324


8. Talanta. 2024 Mar 16;273:125938. doi: 10.1016/j.talanta.2024.125938. Online 
ahead of print.

A highly sensitive Lock-Cas12a biosensor for detection and imaging of miRNA-21 
in breast cancer cells.

Peng J(1), Liu T(1), Guan L(1), Xu Z(1), Xiong T(1), Zhang Y(1), Song J(1), Liu 
X(2), Yang Y(3), Hao X(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health & Jiangxi Provincial Key Laboratory of Preventive 
Medicine, Jiangxi Medical College, Nanchang University, Nanchang, 330006, PR 
China.
(2)School of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Nanchang University, Nanchang, 
330088, PR China; School of Forensic Medicine, Wannan Medical College, Wuhu 
Anhui, 241002, PR China. Electronic address: lxxedu2015@163.com.
(3)School of Public Health & Jiangxi Provincial Key Laboratory of Preventive 
Medicine, Jiangxi Medical College, Nanchang University, Nanchang, 330006, PR 
China. Electronic address: yangyifei@ncu.edu.cn.
(4)School of Public Health & Jiangxi Provincial Key Laboratory of Preventive 
Medicine, Jiangxi Medical College, Nanchang University, Nanchang, 330006, PR 
China. Electronic address: xian.hao@ncu.edu.cn.

The expression levels of microRNA (miRNA) vary significantly in correlation with 
the occurrence and progression of cancer, making them valuable biomarkers for 
cancer diagnosis. However, their quantitative detection faces challenges due to 
the high sequence homology, low abundance and small size. In this work, we 
established a strand displacement amplification (SDA) approach based on 
miRNA-triggered structural "Lock" nucleic acid ("Lock" DNA), coupled with the 
CRISPR/Cas12a system, for detecting miRNA-21 in breast cancer cells. The "Lock" 
DNA freed the CRISPR-derived RNA (crRNA) from the dependence on the target 
sequence and greatly facilitated the extended detection of different miRNAs. 
Moreover, the CRISPR/Cas12a system provided excellent amplification ability and 
specificity. The designed biosensor achieved high sensitivity detection of 
miRNA-21 with a limit of detection (LOD) of 28.8 aM. In particular, the 
biosensor could distinguish breast cancer cells from other cancer cells through 
intracellular imaging. With its straightforward sequence design and ease of use, 
the Lock-Cas12a biosensor offers significant advantages for cell imaging and 
early clinical diagnosis.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.talanta.2024.125938
PMID: 38503125

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


9. Genet Test Mol Biomarkers. 2024 Mar 15. doi: 10.1089/gtmb.2023.0606. Online 
ahead of print.

miR-107 and miR-126 and Risk of Breast Cancer: A Case-Control Study.

Gupta P(1), Sambyal V(1), Bali JS(1), Guleria K(1), Uppal MS(2), Sudan M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Genetics, Human Cytogenetics Laboratory, Guru Nanak Dev 
University, Amritsar, Punjab, India.
(2)Department of Surgery, Sri Guru Ram Das Institute of Medical Sciences and 
Research, Amritsar, Punjab, India.
(3)Department of Radiotherapy, Sri Guru Ram Das Institute of Medical Sciences 
and Research, Amritsar, Punjab, India.

Background: Micro RNAs are new diagnostic markers and therapeutic targets in 
breast cancer research. miR-107 and miR-126 have been reported to be linked with 
the pathogenesis of breast cancer. The present study investigates the levels of 
expression of miR-107 and miR-126 in patients with breast cancer to find their 
correlation with the risk of breast cancer in Amritsar, Punjab, Northwest India. 
Material and Methods: In total, 200 subjects, 100 patients with breast cancer 
and 100 controls, were enrolled to screen the expression of miR-107 and miR-126 
using quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) 
technique. The Livak method (2-ΔΔCt) was used to calculate the fold change of 
the expression of micro RNAs. Student t-test was used to calculate the 
significant change in the expression of miRNAs in patients as compared with 
controls. Spearman rank correlation coefficient and ROC were conducted. The 
value of p < 0.05 was considered to indicate a statistically significant 
difference. Results: miR-107 was downregulated in patients with breast cancer as 
compared with controls (fold change = 0.467; p = 0.114) but not statistically 
significant. The expression of miR-126 was found to be 5.37 times elevated in 
patients with breast cancer, specifically in stage I and stage III patients (p = 
0.009), compared with controls, which may indicate its oncogenic activity. The 
ROC analyses revealed that miR-126 could be a potential diagnostic marker. In 
conclusion oncogenic behavior of miR-126 is suggestive of its role in 
pathogenesis in patients with breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1089/gtmb.2023.0606
PMID: 38487920


10. J Appl Genet. 2024 Mar 13. doi: 10.1007/s13353-024-00852-5. Online ahead of 
print.

Blood-based microRNA profiling unveils complex molecular dynamics in breast 
cancer.

Shahid M(1), Syed R(2), Ansari MA(3), Shafi G(4), John J(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics, College of Pharmacy, King Saud University, P.O. 
Box 2457, 11451, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(2)Department of Pharmaceutics, College of Pharmacy, King Saud University, P.O. 
Box 2457, 11451, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. rsyed@ksu.edu.sa.
(3)Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, College of Pharmacy, King Saud 
University, 11451, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.
(4)Department of Translational Research & Computational Medicine, iNDEX 
Technology, Cupertino, USA.
(5)Department of Medical Laboratory Technology, School of Allied Health Science, 
Sathyabama Institute of Science and Technology, Chennai, India. 
james_cmc2002@yahoo.co.in.

BACKGROUND: Breast cancer, a genetically intricate disease with diverse 
subtypes, exhibits heightened incidence globally. In this study, we aimed to 
investigate blood-based microRNAs (miRNAs) as potential biomarkers for breast 
cancer. The primary objectives were to explore the role of miRNAs in 
cancer-related processes, assess their differential expression between breast 
cancer patients and healthy individuals, and contribute to a deeper 
understanding of the molecular underpinnings of breast cancer.
METHODS: MiRNA extraction was performed on 40 breast cancer patients and 
adjacent normal tissues using a commercial RNA isolation kit. Total RNA 
quantification and quality assessment were conducted with advanced technologies. 
MiRNA profiling involved reverse transcription, labeling, and hybridization on 
Agilent human miRNA arrays (V2). Bioinformatics analysis utilized the DIANA 
system for target gene prediction and the DIANA-mirPath tool for pathway 
enrichment analysis. Selected miRNAs underwent validation through quantitative 
real-time PCR.
RESULTS: Principal component analysis revealed overlapping miRNA expression 
patterns in primary and malignant breast tumors, underscoring the genetic 
complexity involved. Statistical analysis identified 54 downregulated miRNAs in 
malignant tumors and 38 in primary tumors compared to controls. Bioinformatics 
analysis implicated several pathways, including Wnt, TGF-b, ErbB, and MAPK 
signaling. Validation through qRT-PCR confirmed altered expression of 
hsa-miR-130a, hsa-miR-21, hsa-miR-223, and hsa-let-7c key miRNAs, highlighting 
their significance in breast cancer. The results from microarray were further 
validated by qPCR and the expression of which are downregulated in breast cancer 
was detected.
CONCLUSION: This study provides significant insights into distinct miRNA 
expression patterns in normal and malignant breast tissues. The overlapping 
miRNA profiles in primary and malignant tumors underscore the complexity of 
genetic regulation in breast cancer. The identification of deregulated miRNAs 
and affected pathways contributes to our understanding of breast cancer 
pathogenesis. The validated miRNAs hold potential as diagnostic and prognostic 
markers, offering avenues for further clinical exploration in breast cancer 
research.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Institute of Plant Genetics 
Polish Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.1007/s13353-024-00852-5
PMID: 38478327


11. Chem Biol Drug Des. 2024 Mar;103(3):e14488. doi: 10.1111/cbdd.14488.

Serum exosomal miR-3662 down-regulates the expression of RBMS3 to promote 
malignant progression and gemcitabine resistance of breast cancer cells.

Li X(1), Chu X(1), Wang H(1), Xiang L(1), Yue X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thyroid and Breast Surgery, Zigong Fourth People's Hospital, 
Zigong, Sichuan, China.

Breast cancer (BC) is a prevalent malignancy among women worldwide. As an 
anticancer drug of pyrimidine nucleoside analogs, gemcitabine can be used to 
treat BC, but its clinical application is restricted due to drug resistance. 
This study investigated the effect of serum exosomal microRNA-3662 (miR-3662) on 
gemcitabine resistance in BC cells by targeting RNA-Binding Motif 
Single-Stranded Interacting Protein 3 (RBMS3) and related molecular mechanisms. 
We performed the bioinformatics analyses on the differential miRNAs in BC and 
predicted the downstream regulators. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain 
reaction was conducted to determine miR-3662 and RBMS3 expression, while dual 
luciferase was conducted to confirme the regulatory relationship between them. 
Flow cytometry, cell counting kit-8, and transwell assays were applied to assess 
apoptosis, cell viability, invasion, and migration. The expression of marker 
proteins (TSG101, CD63, and CD81) in patients' serum exosomes was evaluated 
through western blot, and exosomes were observed using transmission electron 
microscopy. miR-3662 expression was significantly upregulated in BC, and 
miR-3662 knockdown significantly reduced BC cell viability and gemcitabine 
resistance. As the downstream gene of miR-3662, RBMS3 was significantly 
downregulated in BC, and dual luciferase assay verified the binding of 
RBMS3-3'UTR to miR-3662. Rescue experiments revealed that silencing RBMS3 
reversed the inhibitory effect of miR-3662 knockdown on BC cells. Besides, we 
also found that miR-3662 expression was significantly low in serum exosome 
samples from BC patients and could be transmitted to tumor cells. miR-3662 was 
upregulated in serum exosomes and promoted BC cell progression and gemcitabine 
resistance by targeting RBMS3.

© 2024 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cbdd.14488
PMID: 38472166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Oncol Lett. 2024 Feb 28;27(4):181. doi: 10.3892/ol.2024.14314. eCollection 2024 
Apr.

Liquid biopsy utilizing miRNA in patients with advanced breast cancer treated 
with cyclin‑dependent kinase 4/6 inhibitors.

Kubeczko M(1), Tudrej P(2), Tyszkiewicz T(2), Krzywon A(3), Oczko-Wojciechowska 
M(2), JarzĄb M(1).

Author information:
(1)Breast Cancer Center, Maria Sklodowska-Curie National Research Institute of 
Oncology Gliwice Branch, Gliwice, Upper Silesia 44-102, Poland.
(2)Department of Clinical and Molecular Genetics, Maria Sklodowska-Curie 
National Research Institute of Oncology Gliwice Branch, Gliwice, Upper Silesia 
44-102, Poland.
(3)Department of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics, Maria Sklodowska-Curie 
National Research Institute of Oncology Gliwice Branch, Gliwice, Upper Silesia 
44-102, Poland.

Cyclin-dependent kinase 4/6 inhibitors (CDK4/6is) are the mainstay of treatment 
of hormone receptor+/human epidermal growth factor receptor 2-patients with 
advanced breast cancer (ABC). Despite improvements in overall survival, most 
patients experience disease progression. Biomarkers derived from a liquid biopsy 
are appealing for their potential to detect resistance to treatment earlier than 
computed tomography imaging. However, clinical data concerning microRNAs 
(miRNAs/miRs) in the context of CDK4/6is are lacking. Thus, the present study 
assessed the use of miRNAs in patients with ABC treated with CDK4/6is. Patients 
treated for ABC with CDK4/6is between June and August 2022 were eligible. miRNA 
expression analyses were performed using a TaqMan™ low-density miRNA array. A 
total of 80 consecutive patients with ABC treated with CDK4/6is at Maria 
Sklodowska-Curie National Research Institute of Oncology (Gliwice, Poland) were 
assessed, with 14 patients diagnosed with progressive disease at the time of 
sampling, 55 patients exhibited clinical benefit from CDK4/6i treatment and 11 
patients were at the beginning of CDK4/6i treatment. Patients with disease 
progression had significantly higher levels of miR-21 (P=0.027), miR-34a 
(P=0.011), miR-193b (P=0.032), miR-200a (P=0.027) and miR-200b (P=0.003) 
compared with patients who benefitted from CDK4/6i treatment. Significantly 
higher levels of miR-34a expression were observed in patients with progressive 
disease than in patients beginning treatment (P=0.031). The present study 
demonstrated the potential innovative role of circulating miRNAs during CDK4/6i 
treatment. Plasma-based expression of miR-21, -34a, -193b, -200a and -200b 
effectively distinguished patients with ABC who responded to CDK4/6i treatment 
from patients who were resistant. However, longitudinal studies are required to 
verify the predictive and prognostic potential of miRNA.

Copyright: © 2024 Kubeczko et al.

DOI: 10.3892/ol.2024.14314
PMCID: PMC10921259
PMID: 38464342

Conflict of interest statement: MK declares conference fees for Pfizer, Roche, 
Novartis, Teva, and Amgen; clinical trials for Roche, MSD, Novartis, Seagen, and 
Gilead; speaker's honoraria from Novartis, Roche, Lilly, Teva, and Amgen, Swixx 
Biopharma; advisory board for Novartis; all outside the submitted work. MJ 
declares conference fees for Gilead, Roche; clinical trials for Roche, MSD, 
Novartis, Seagen, and Gilead; speaker's honoraria from Novartis, Roche, Lilly, 
Pfizer, Teva, Exact Sciences, and Mammotome; advisory boards for Novartis and 
Pfizer; all outside submitted work. All other authors declare they have no 
competing interests.


13. Sci Rep. 2024 Mar 10;14(1):5845. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-56511-6.

MicroRNA-561-3p indirectly regulates the PD-L1 expression by targeting ZEB1, 
HIF1A, and MYC genes in breast cancer.

Yousefi A(1), Sotoodehnejadnematalahi F(1), Nafissi N(2), Zeinali S(3), Azizi 
M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, School of Basic Science, Science and Research Branch, 
Islamic Azad University, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Breast Surgery Department, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Molecular Medicine Department, Biotechnology Research Center, Pasteur 
Institute of Iran, 69th Pasteur Street, Kargar Avenue, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Molecular Medicine Department, Biotechnology Research Center, Pasteur 
Institute of Iran, 69th Pasteur Street, Kargar Avenue, Tehran, Iran. 
mazizi528@gmail.com.

Globally, breast cancer is the second most common cause of cancer-related deaths 
among women. In breast cancer, microRNAs (miRNAs) are essential for both the 
initiation and development of tumors. It has been suggested that the tumor 
suppressor microRNA-561-3p (miR-561-3p) is crucial in arresting the growth of 
cancer cells. Further research is necessary to fully understand the role and 
molecular mechanism of miR-561 in human BC. The aim of this study was to 
investigate the inhibitory effect of miR-561-3p on ZEB1, HIF1A, and MYC 
expression as oncogenes that have the most impact on PD-L1 overexpression and 
cellular processes such as proliferation, apoptosis, and cell cycle in breast 
cancer (BC) cell lines. The expression of ZEB1, HIF1A, and MYC genes and 
miR-561-3p were measured in BC clinical samples and cell lines via qRT-PCR. The 
luciferase assay, MTT, Annexin-PI staining, and cell cycle experiments were used 
to assess the effect of miR-561-3p on candidate gene expression, proliferation, 
apoptosis, and cell cycle progression. Flow cytometry was used to investigate 
the effects of miR-561 on PD-L1 suppression in the BC cell line. The luciferase 
assay showed that miRNA-561-3p targets the 3'-UTRs of ZEB1, HIF1A and MYC genes 
significantly. In BC tissues, the qRT-PCR results demonstrated that miR-561-3p 
expression was downregulated and the expression of ZEB1, HIF1A and MYC genes was 
up-regulated. It was shown that overexpression of miR-561-3p decreased PD-L1 
expression and BC cell proliferation, and induced apoptosis and cell cycle 
arrest through downregulation of candidate oncogenes. Furthermore, inhibition of 
candidate genes by miR-561-3p reduced PD-L1 at both mRNA and protein levels. Our 
research investigated the impact of miR-561-3p on the expression of ZEB1, HIF1A 
and MYC in breast cancer cells for the first time. Our findings may help clarify 
the role of miR-561-3p in PD-L1 regulation and point to this miR as a potential 
biomarker and novel therapeutic target for cancer immunotherapy.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-56511-6
PMCID: PMC10925600
PMID: 38462658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


14. Clin Breast Cancer. 2024 Feb 22:S1526-8209(24)00052-1. doi: 
10.1016/j.clbc.2024.02.014. Online ahead of print.

Long-Term Outcomes of S-1 Combined With Low-Dose Docetaxel as Neoadjuvant 
Chemotherapy (N-1 Study, Phase II Trial) in Patients With Operable Breast 
Cancer.

Sasa S(1), Inoue H(1), Nakagawa M(2), Toba H(3), Goto M(1), Okumura K(1), Misaki 
M(1), Inui T(1), Yukishige S(1), Nishisho A(4), Hino N(4), Kanematsu M(5), Bando 
Y(6), Uehara H(6), Tangoku A(1), Takizawa H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic, Endocrine Surgery and Oncology, Institute of 
Biomedical Science, Tokushima University Graduate School, Tokushima, Japan.
(2)Department of Surgery, Takamatsu Municipal Hospital, Takamatsu, Japan.
(3)Department of Thoracic, Endocrine Surgery and Oncology, Institute of 
Biomedical Science, Tokushima University Graduate School, Tokushima, Japan. 
Electronic address: ht1109@tokushima-u.ac.jp.
(4)Department of Surgery, Tokushima Municipal Hospital, Tokushima, Japan.
(5)Department of Surgery, Tokushima Red Cross Hospital, Komatsushima-cho, 
Komatsushima, Japan.
(6)Division of Pathology, Tokushima University Hospital, Tokushima, Japan.

BACKGROUND: We previously reported that S-1 and low-dose docetaxel (DOC) (N-1 
study, phase II trial) could be a well-tolerated and effective neoadjuvant 
chemotherapies (NACs) for patients with operable breast cancer. Herein, we 
analyzed the long-term outcomes and developed clinicopathological and molecular 
predictors of pathological complete response (pCR).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Eighty-three patients received S-1 (40 mg/m2 orally on 
days 1-14) and DOC (40 mg/m2 intravenously on day 1) every 3 weeks for 4 to 8 
cycles. Disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) were analyzed for 
each population with a pCR status. To assess the relationship between pCR and 
clinicopathological factors such as tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs, 1+ 
<10%, 2+ 10%-50%, and 3+ >50%) and nuclear grade (NG), microarray was used to 
compare the microRNA profiles of the pCR and non-pCR groups using core needle 
biopsy specimens.
RESULTS: With a median follow-up duration of 99.0 (range, 9.0-129.0) months, the 
5-year DFS and OS rates were 80.7% and 90.9%, respectively. The 5-year OS rate 
of the pCR group was significantly better than that of the non-pCR group (100% 
vs. 86.2%, p = .0176). Specifically, in triple-negative patients, the difference 
was significant (100% vs. 60.0%, p = .0224). Multivariate analysis revealed that 
high TILs (≥2-3+) and NG 2-3 independently predicted pCR. Microarray data 
revealed that 3 miRNAs (miR-215-5p, miR-196a-5p, and miR-196b-5p) were 
significantly upregulated in the pCR group.
CONCLUSION: Our NAC regimen achieved favorable long-term outcomes and 
significantly improved OS in the pCR group. High TILs, NG 2-3, and some miRNAs 
may be predictors of pCR.

Copyright © 2024 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clbc.2024.02.014
PMID: 38462397

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors declare that they have no 
known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have 
appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.


15. Int J Breast Cancer. 2024 Feb 28;2024:2408355. doi: 10.1155/2024/2408355. 
eCollection 2024.

Assessment of miRNA-10b Expression Levels as a Potential Precursor to Metastasis 
in Localized and Locally Advanced/Metastatic Breast Cancer among Iraqi Patients.

Abdallah M(1), Aziz IH(1), Alsammarraie AZ(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology, University of Baghdad, 
Baghdad, Iraq.
(2)Oncology Teaching Hospital, Baghdad Medical City, Baghdad, Iraq.

Breast cancer (BC) stands as the most prevalent form of carcinoma among women, 
ranking as the second leading cause of cancer-related mortality in the female 
population. The objective of this study is to assess the expression of miR-10b 
and determine its diagnostic and prognostic significance in breast cancer 
patients across various disease stages. The investigation was carried out in 
Baghdad at the Oncology Teaching Hospital within Baghdad Medical City and the 
Oncology Unit at Al-Yarmouk Teaching Hospital. A total of 150 samples were 
included and divided into two groups: the blood group consisting of 90 samples 
(including control subjects, localized BC patients, and those with metastatic 
and locally advanced BC) and the tissue group comprising 60 samples 
(representing both benign and malignant BC cases). The study spanned from March 
2022 to January 2023, with patients' ages ranging from 24 to 75 years. The 
primary focus of this investigation was to identify the gene expression of 
miRNA-10b in all sample types. This was achieved by measuring gene expression 
levels and normalizing them to the level of a housekeeping gene (U6), and 
quantification was carried out considering the ΔCt value and the fold change 
method (2-ΔΔCt). The results revealed an upregulated fold expression of 
miRNA-10b, particularly in locally advanced and metastatic BC, where the 
expression was significantly higher compared to the other groups, with a fold 
expression of 1.770 ± 0.1070. In localized breast cancer, the fold expression 
was 1.624 ± 0.064, and in malignant tissue, it measured 1.546 ± 0.06754, all 
relative to apparently healthy control subjects. In summary, our research 
provides compelling evidence supporting the classification of miRNA-10b as an 
oncogenic factor in BC. The central involvement of miRNA-10b in the tumorigenic 
processes of BC highlights its reference for developing novel targeted 
therapeutic interventions and detection biomarkers for BC treatment. Notably, 
elevated expression of miRNA-10b was observed in BC tissues, correlating with an 
unfavorable distant metastasis-free survival outcome.

Copyright © 2024 Mays Abdallah et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2024/2408355
PMCID: PMC10917482
PMID: 38450330

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no known conflict for this 
work.


16. BMC Genomics. 2024 Mar 6;25(1):250. doi: 10.1186/s12864-024-10174-9.

Integrated analysis reveals FLI1 regulates the tumor immune microenvironment via 
its cell-type-specific expression and transcriptional regulation of distinct 
target genes of immune cells in breast cancer.

Pei J(1)(2)(3), Peng Y(4), Ma K(1)(2), Lan C(1)(2), Zhang T(5), Li Y(5), Chen 
X(6), Gao H(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)National Research Institute for Family Planning, Beijing, 100081, China.
(2)Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, 
100730, China.
(3)Institute of Clinical Medicine, Gansu Provincial Maternity and Child-care 
Hospital (Gansu Provincial Central Hospital), Lanzhou, 730000, China.
(4)Department of General Surgery, Peking University Third Hospital, Beijing, 
100191, China.
(5)Medical College of Northwest Minzu University, Lanzhou, 730030, China.
(6)School of Biological Science and Medical Engineering, Beihang University, 
Beijing, 100083, China. xfchen@buaa.edu.cn.
(7)National Research Institute for Family Planning, Beijing, 100081, China. 
gaohuafang@nrifp.org.cn.
(8)Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, 
100730, China. gaohuafang@nrifp.org.cn.

BACKGROUND: Immunotherapy is a practical therapeutic approach in breast cancer 
(BRCA), and the role of FLI1 in immune regulation has gradually been unveiled. 
However, the specific role of FLI1 in BRCA was conflicted; thus, additional 
convincing evidence is needed.
METHODS: We explored the upstream regulation of FLI1 expression via summary 
data-based Mendelian randomization (SMR) analysis and ncRNA network construction 
centering on FLI1 using BRCA genome-wide association study (GWAS) summary data 
with expression quantitative trait loci (eQTLs) and DNA methylation quantitative 
trait loci (mQTLs) from the blood and a series of in silico analyses, 
respectively. We illuminated the downstream function of FLI1 in immune 
regulation by integrating a series of analyses of single-cell RNA sequence data 
(scRNA-seq).
RESULTS: We verified a causal pathway from FLI1 methylation to FLI1 gene 
expression to BRCA onset and demonstrated that FLI1 was downregulated in BRCA. 
FLI1, a transcription factor, served as myeloid and T cells' communication 
regulator by targeting immune-related ligands and receptor transcription in BRCA 
tissues. We constructed a ceRNA network centering on FLI1 that consisted of 
three LncRNAs (CKMT2-AS1, PSMA3-AS1, and DIO3OS) and a miRNA (hsa-miR-324-5p), 
and the expression of FLI1 was positively related to a series of immune-related 
markers, including immune cell infiltration, biomarkers of immune cells, and 
immune checkpoints.
CONCLUSION: Low-methylation-induced or ncRNA-mediated downregulation of FLI1 is 
associated with poor prognosis, and FLI1 might regulate the tumor immune 
microenvironment via a cell-type-specific target genes manner in BRCA.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12864-024-10174-9
PMCID: PMC10916124
PMID: 38448802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


17. BMC Cancer. 2024 Mar 1;24(1):278. doi: 10.1186/s12885-024-12007-0.

The novel circRNA circ_0045881 inhibits cell proliferation and invasion by 
targeting mir-214-3p in triple-negative breast cancer.

Ren J(#)(1), Chen W(#)(2), Zhou Y(1), Sun J(1), Jiang G(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Soochow 
University, No. 1055 Sanxiang Road, 215004, Suzhou, Jiangsu Province, China.
(2)Surgery Department, Suzhou Wuzhong People's Hospital, 215128, Suzhou, Jiangsu 
Province, China.
(3)Department of General Surgery, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Soochow 
University, No. 1055 Sanxiang Road, 215004, Suzhou, Jiangsu Province, China. 
jiang_guoqin@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is the most lethal subtype of 
breast cancer (BC). The circRNA-miRNA‒mRNA axis is a promising biomarker for the 
early diagnosis and prognosis of BC. However, the critical circRNA mediators 
involved in TNBC progression and the underlying regulatory mechanism involved 
remain largely unclear.
METHODS: In this study, we carried out a circRNA microarray analysis of 6 TNBC 
patients and performed a gene ontology (GO) analysis. Kyoto Encyclopedia of 
Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis was used to characterize important circRNAs 
involved in TNBC progression. The interaction between circRNAs and miRNAs was 
determined by dual luciferase and RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) assays. 
Moreover, Transwell, wound healing and Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK8) assays were 
performed with altered circRNA or miRNA expression in MDA-MB-231 and BT-549 
cells to investigate the roles of these genes in cell invasion, migration and 
proliferation.
RESULTS: A total of 78 circRNAs were differentially expressed in TNBC tissues, 
and the hsa_circ_0045881 level was significantly decreased in TNBC tissues and 
cells. Lentivirus-mediated hsa_circ_0045881 overexpression in MDA-MB-231 and 
BT-549 cells significantly reduced cell invasion and migration capacity. 
Additionally, hsa_circ_0045881 interacted with miR-214-3p in MDA-MB-231 cells. 
miR-214-3p mimics in MDA-MB-231 and BT-549 cells significantly enhanced cell 
invasion, migration and proliferation, but the other combinations of inhibitors 
had opposite effects on cell activity.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data indicated that the circRNA has_circ_0045881 plays key 
roles in TNBC progression and that hsa_circ_0045881 might act as a sponge for 
miR-214-3p to modulate its levels in TNBC cells, thereby regulating cell 
invasion, metastasis and proliferation. hsa_circ_004588 might be a potential 
prognostic marker and therapeutic target for TNBC.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12885-024-12007-0
PMCID: PMC10905830
PMID: 38429642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


18. Anal Chem. 2024 Mar 12;96(10):4154-4162. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.3c05085. Epub 
2024 Mar 1.

MiRNA and mRNA-Controlled Double-Cascaded Amplifying Circuit Nanosensor for 
Accurate Discrimination of Breast Cancers in Living Cells, Animals, and 
Organoids.

Yang H(1)(2), Chen D(3), Zhang Y(4), Yuan P(5), Xie N(1), Dai Z(4).

Author information:
(1)Biobank, Shenzhen Second People's Hospital, First Affiliated Hospital of 
Shenzhen University, Shenzhen 518035, China.
(2)Guangdong Key Laboratory for Biomedical Measurements and Ultrasound Imaging, 
National-Regional Key Technology Engineering Laboratory for Medical Ultrasound, 
School of Biomedical Engineering, Shenzhen University Medical School, Shenzhen 
518060, China.
(3)Department of Thyroid and Breast Surgery, Peking University Shenzhen 
Hospital, Shenzhen 518036, China.
(4)Guangdong Provincial Key Laboratory of Sensing Technology and Biomedical 
Instrument, School of Biomedical Engineering, Sun Yat-Sen University, Shenzhen 
518107, China.
(5)College of Materials and Energy, South China Agricultural University, 
Guangzhou 510642, China.

Metastasis is the leading cause of death in patients with breast cancer. 
Detecting high-risk breast cancer, including micrometastasis, at an early stage 
is vital for customizing the right and efficient therapies. In this study, we 
propose an enzyme-free isothermal cascade amplification-based DNA logic circuit 
in situ biomineralization nanosensor, HDNAzyme@ZIF-8, for simultaneous imaging 
of multidimensional biomarkers in live cells. Taking miR-21 and Ki-67 mRNA as 
the dual detection targets achieved sensitive logic operations and molecular 
recognition through the cascade hybridization chain reaction and DNAzyme. The 
HDNAzyme@ZIF-8 nanosensor has the ability to accurately differentiate breast 
cancer cells and their subtypes by comparing their relative fluorescence 
intensities. Of note, our nanosensor can also achieve visualization within 
breast cancer organoids, faithfully recapitulating the functional 
characteristics of parental tumor. Overall, the combination of these techniques 
offers a universal strategy for detecting cancers with high sensitivity and 
holds vast potential in clinical cancer diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.3c05085
PMID: 38426698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Oncol Lett. 2024 Feb 16;27(4):158. doi: 10.3892/ol.2024.14291. eCollection 2024 
Apr.

Exploring miRNA‑target gene profiles associated with drug resistance in patients 
with breast cancer receiving neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

Kim MW(1), Moon S(1), Lee S(1), Lee H(1), Kim Y(1), Kim JY(1), Kim JY(1), Kim 
SI(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul 03722, 
Republic of Korea.

Exosomal microRNAs (miRNAs) are closely related to drug resistance in patients 
with breast cancer (BC); however, only a few roles of the exosomal miRNA-target 
gene networks have been clinically implicated in drug resistance in BC. 
Therefore, the present study aimed to identify the differential expression of 
exosomal miRNAs associated with drug resistance and their target mRNAs. In vitro 
microarray analysis was used to verify differentially expressed miRNAs (DEMs) in 
drug-resistant BC. Next, tumor-derived exosomes (TDEs) were isolated. 
Furthermore, it was determined whether the candidate drug-resistant miRNAs were 
also significant in TDEs, and then putative miRNAs in TDEs were validated in 
plasma samples from 35 patients with BC (20 patients with BC showing no response 
and 15 patients with BC showing a complete response). It was confirmed that the 
combination of five exosomal miRNAs, including miR-125b-5p, miR-146a-5p, 
miR-484, miR-1246-5p and miR-1260b, was effective for predicting therapeutic 
response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy, with an area under the curve value of 
0.95, sensitivity of 75%, and specificity of 95%. Public datasets were analyzed 
to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) related to drug resistance and 
it was revealed that BAK1, NOVA1, PTGER4, RTKN2, AGO1, CAP1, and ETS1 were the 
target genes of exosomal miRNAs. Networks between DEMs and DEGs were highly 
correlated with mitosis, metabolism, drug transport, and immune responses. 
Consequently, these targets could be used as predictive markers and therapeutic 
targets for clinical applications to enhance treatment outcomes for patients 
with BC.

Copyright: © Kim et al.

DOI: 10.3892/ol.2024.14291
PMCID: PMC10902752
PMID: 38426156

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


20. Sci Rep. 2024 Feb 27;14(1):4715. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-52940-5.

MicroRNA-203a inhibits breast cancer progression through the PI3K/Akt and Wnt 
pathways.

Entezari M(1), Soltani BM(1), Sadeghizadeh M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics, Faculty of Biological Sciences, Tarbiat 
Modares University, Tehran, 14115-111, Iran.
(2)Department of Molecular Genetics, Faculty of Biological Sciences, Tarbiat 
Modares University, Tehran, 14115-111, Iran. Sadeghma@modares.ac.ir.

MicroRNA expression in breast cancer (BC) is explored both as a potential 
biomarker and for therapeutic purposes. Recent studies have revealed that 
miR-203a-3p is involved in BC, and importantly contributes to BC chemotherapy 
responses; however, the regulatory pathways of miR-203a in BC remain elusive. 
Hence, we aimed to investigate the miR-203a regulatory mechanisms and their 
potential functions in the progress of BC. To this end, the miR-203a potential 
involving pathways was predicted by databases analyzing its target genes. The 
relations between miR-203a, the phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase (PI3K)-Akt, and 
Wnt signaling pathways were mechanistically investigated. Our results revealed 
that miR-203a inhibited the activation of the PI3K/Akt and Wnt pathways and 
reduced its downstream cell cycle signals, including Cyclin D1 and c-Myc. 
Moreover, the overexpression of miR-203a drastically arrested the cell cycle at 
subG1 and G1 phases, decreased the viability, proliferation, and migration, and 
increased apoptosis of BC cells. Therefore, miR-203a-3p may be considered a 
tumor suppressor factor and a potential biomarker or therapeutic target for BC.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-52940-5
PMCID: PMC10899204
PMID: 38413784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


21. Mol Biol Rep. 2024 Feb 27;51(1):372. doi: 10.1007/s11033-024-09272-4.

Over-expression of mir-181a-3p in serum of breast cancer patients as diagnostic 
biomarker.

Fouladi H(1), Ebrahimi A(1), Derakhshan SM(1), Khaniani MS(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, Faculty of Medicine, Tabriz University of 
Medical Genetics, Tabriz, Iran.
(2)Department of Medical Genetics, Faculty of Medicine, Tabriz University of 
Medical Genetics, Tabriz, Iran. shekarima@tbzmed.ac.ir.

BACKGROUND: Recently, the significance of epigenetics, particularly in breast 
cancer (BC), has become increasingly recognized. MicroRNAs (miRNAs), as an 
epigenetic factor, are offering valuable insights into various aspects of BC, 
such as its origins and clinical features. Therefore, studying the disruption of 
specific miRNAs through microarray and RNA-seq techniques is considered useful.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: We analyzed two microarray datasets (GSE106817 and 
GSE113486) in order to discover dysregulated miRNAs in the serum of BC patients. 
Subsequently, RNA-seq analysis was employed on the TCGA data. Two miRNAs, 
mir-450a-5p and mir-181a-3p, as novel miRNAs in BC studies, were selected for 
assessment in the serum of 100 BC patients versus 100 healthy female 
participants. The quantities of the miRNAs described above were determined 
through the utilization of RT-qPCR. Furthermore, ROC curve assessments were 
conducted for each individual miRNA. Next, an assessment was conducted to 
determine the prognostic significance of these miRNAs.
CONCLUSIONS: In summary, the utilization of microarray and RNA-seq analysis 
techniques has demonstrated that mir-450a-5p and mir-181a-3p exhibit elevated 
expression levels in the serum of BC patients. However, it is noteworthy that 
only mir-181a-3p displayed clinical dysregulation, as confirmed by RT-PCR 
findings. These miRNAs have been found to play a crucial role in modulating 
essential cellular processes and biological functions that contribute to cancer 
development. Furthermore, noteworthy outcomes have been observed for mir-181a-3p 
in relation to diagnostic and prognostic clinical characteristics.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature B.V.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-024-09272-4
PMID: 38411870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. NAR Genom Bioinform. 2024 Feb 24;6(1):lqae022. doi: 10.1093/nargab/lqae022. 
eCollection 2024 Mar.

An evolutionary learning-based method for identifying a circulating miRNA 
signature for breast cancer diagnosis prediction.

Sathipati SY(1), Tsai MJ(2)(3), Aimalla N(4), Moat L(1), Shukla SK(1), Allaire 
P(1), Hebbring S(1), Beheshti A(5)(6), Sharma R(7), Ho SY(8)(9)(10).

Author information:
(1)Center for Precision Medicine Research, Marshfield Clinic Research Institute, 
Marshfield, WI 54449, USA.
(2)Hinda and Arthur Marcus Institute for Aging Research at Hebrew Senior Life, 
Boston, MA 02131, USA.
(3)Department of Medicine, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA 02131, USA.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine-Pediatrics, Marshfield Clinic Health System, 
Marshfield, WI 54449, USA.
(5)Blue Marble Space Institute of Science, Space Biosciences Division, NASA Ames 
Research Center, Moffett Field, CA94035, USA.
(6)Stanley Center for Psychiatric Research, Broad Institute of MIT and Harvard, 
Cambridge, MA 02142, USA.
(7)Department of Surgical Oncology, Marshfield Clinic Health System, Marshfield, 
WI 54449, USA.
(8)Institute of Bioinformatics and Systems biology, National Yang Ming Chiao 
Tung University, Hsinchu 300, Taiwan.
(9)College of Health Sciences, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung 807378, 
Taiwan.
(10)Biomedical Engineering, National Yang Ming Chiao Tung University, Hsinchu 
300, Taiwan.

Breast cancer (BC) is one of the most commonly diagnosed cancers worldwide. As 
key regulatory molecules in several biological processes, microRNAs (miRNAs) are 
potential biomarkers for cancer. Understanding the miRNA markers that can detect 
BC may improve survival rates and develop new targeted therapeutic strategies. 
To identify a circulating miRNA signature for diagnostic prediction in patients 
with BC, we developed an evolutionary learning-based method called BSig. BSig 
established a compact set of miRNAs as potential markers from 1280 patients with 
BC and 2686 healthy controls retrieved from the serum miRNA expression profiles 
for the diagnostic prediction. BSig demonstrated outstanding prediction 
performance, with an independent test accuracy and area under the receiver 
operating characteristic curve were 99.90% and 0.99, respectively. We identified 
12 miRNAs, including hsa-miR-3185, hsa-miR-3648, hsa-miR-4530, hsa-miR-4763-5p, 
hsa-miR-5100, hsa-miR-5698, hsa-miR-6124, hsa-miR-6768-5p, hsa-miR-6800-5p, 
hsa-miR-6807-5p, hsa-miR-642a-3p, and hsa-miR-6836-3p, which significantly 
contributed towards diagnostic prediction in BC. Moreover, through 
bioinformatics analysis, this study identified 65 miRNA-target genes specific to 
BC cell lines. A comprehensive gene-set enrichment analysis was also performed 
to understand the underlying mechanisms of these target genes. BSig, a tool 
capable of BC detection and facilitating therapeutic selection, is publicly 
available at https://github.com/mingjutsai/BSig.

© The Author(s) 2024. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of NAR 
Genomics and Bioinformatics.

DOI: 10.1093/nargab/lqae022
PMCID: PMC10894035
PMID: 38406797


23. Oncogene. 2024 Mar;43(14):1019-1032. doi: 10.1038/s41388-024-02971-z. Epub 2024 
Feb 16.

LncRNA PRBC induces autophagy to promote breast cancer progression through 
modulating PABPC1-mediated mRNA stabilization.

Liang Y(#)(1), Chen B(#)(2), Xu F(1), Long L(1)(3), Ye F(1), Wang Y(1), Luo 
D(1), Li Y(1), Zhao W(2), Wang L(2), Jin Y(1), Wang L(1), Kong X(1), Su P(4), 
Yang Q(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Breast Surgery, General Surgery, Qilu Hospital of Shandong 
University, Jinan, Shandong, 250012, P.R. China.
(2)Biological Resource Center, Qilu Hospital of Shandong University, Jinan, 
Shandong, 250012, P.R. China.
(3)Department of Breast Surgery, Mianyang Central Hospital, Mianyang, Sichuan, 
621000, P.R. China.
(4)Department of Pathology, Qilu Hospital of Shandong University, Jinan, 
Shandong, 250012, P.R. China. supeng820125@163.com.
(5)Department of Breast Surgery, General Surgery, Qilu Hospital of Shandong 
University, Jinan, Shandong, 250012, P.R. China. qifengy_sdu@163.com.
(6)Biological Resource Center, Qilu Hospital of Shandong University, Jinan, 
Shandong, 250012, P.R. China. qifengy_sdu@163.com.
(7)Research Institute of Breast Cancer, Shandong University, Jinan, Shandong, 
250012, P.R. China. qifengy_sdu@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Breast cancer is one of the major malignant tumors among women worldwide. Long 
noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) have been documented as significant modulators in the 
development and progression of various cancers; however, the contribution of 
lncRNAs to breast cancer remains largely unknown. In this study, we found a 
novel lncRNA (NONHSAT137675) whose expression was significantly increased in the 
breast cancer tissues. We named the novel lncRNA as lncRNA PRBC (PABPC1-related 
lncRNA in breast cancer) and identified it as a key lncRNA associated with 
breast cancer progression and prognosis. Functional analysis displayed that 
lncRNA PRBC could promote autophagy and progression of breast cancer. 
Mechanistically, we verified that lncRNA PRBC physically interacted with PABPC1 
through RIP assay, and PABPC1 overexpression could reverse the inhibiting effect 
of lncRNA PRBC knockdown on the malignant behaviors in breast cancer cells. 
Knockdown of lncRNA PRBC interfered the translocation of PABPC1 from nucleus to 
cytoplasm as indicated by western blot and IF assays. Significantly, the 
cytoplasmic location of PABPC1 was required for the interaction between PABPC1 
and AGO2, which could be enhanced by lncRNA PRBC overexpression, leading to 
strengthened recruitment of mRNA to RNA-induced silencing complex (RISC) and 
thus reinforcing the inhibition efficiency of miRNAs. In general, lncRNA PRBC 
played a critical role in malignant progression of breast cancer by inducing the 
cytoplasmic translocation of PABPC1 to further regulate the function of 
downstream miRNAs. This study provides novel insight on the molecular mechanism 
of breast cancer progression, and lncRNA PRBC might be a promising therapeutic 
target and prognostic predictor for breast cancer.

© 2024. The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Nature Limited.

DOI: 10.1038/s41388-024-02971-z
PMID: 38366145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Anal Chem. 2024 Feb 27;96(8):3636-3644. doi: 10.1021/acs.analchem.3c05766. Epub 
2024 Feb 15.

Dual-microRNA-Controlled Electrochemiluminescence Biosensor for Breast Cancer 
Diagnosis and Supplemental Identification of Breast Cancer Metastasis.

Ye Z(1), Ma M(1)(2), Chen Y(1), Liu R(1), Zhang Y(1), Ma P(1), Song D(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Chemistry, Jilin Province Research Center for Engineering and 
Technology of Spectral Analytical Instruments, Jilin University, Qianjin Street 
2699, Changchun 130012, China.
(2)School of Pharmacy, Jilin University, Qianjin Street 2699, Changchun 130012, 
China.

Breast cancer remains the most frequently diagnosed cancer globally, and the 
metastasis of this malignancy is the primary cause of mortality in breast cancer 
patients. Hence, prompt diagnosis and timely detection of metastatic breast 
cancer are critical for effective therapeutic intervention. Both progression and 
metastasis of this malignancy are closely associated with aberrant expression of 
specific microRNAs (miRNAs) and enzymes. To facilitate breast cancer diagnosis 
and concomitant identification of metastatic breast cancer, we have engineered 
an innovative electrochemiluminescence (ECL)-based sensing platform integrated 
with enzyme-free DNA amplification circuits for dual functionality. 
Specifically, microRNA-21 (miR-21) is employed as a biomarker for breast cancer, 
and miR-21 induces the quenching of the ECL signal from luminophores via a 
strategically designed catalytic three-hairpin assembly (CTHA) circuit. 
Subsequently, miR-105 levels are measured via toehold-mediated strand 
displacement reactions (TSDR). Here, miR-105 restores the initially quenched ECL 
signal, enabling the assessment of the metastatic propensity. Our experimental 
data demonstrate that the devised ECL biosensor offers broad linear detection 
ranges and low detection limits for both miR-21 and miR-105. Importantly, our 
novel platform was also successfully validated by using cellular and serum 
samples. This biosensor not only discriminates breast cancer cell lines MCF-7 
and MDA-MB-231 from nonbreast cancer cells like HepG2, TPC-1, and HeLa, but it 
also distinguishes between malignant MCF-7 and metastatic MDA-MB-231 cells. 
Consequently, our novel approach holds significant promise for clinical 
applications and precise cancer screening.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.analchem.3c05766
PMID: 38357821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Cancer Rep (Hoboken). 2024 Feb;7(2):e1974. doi: 10.1002/cnr2.1974.

miRNA-449c-5p regulates the JAK-STAT pathway in inhibiting cell proliferation 
and invasion in human breast cancer cells by targeting ERBB2.

Li L(1), Zhang Y(1), Yang K(1), Liu W(1), Zhou Z(1), Xu Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Breast and Thyroid Surgery, The First People's Hospital of 
Yunnan Province, The Affiliated Hospital of Medical College, Kunming University 
of Science and Technology, Kunming, China.

BACKGROUND: Breast cancer is a highly prevalent disease worldwide, and early 
diagnosis and treatment could reduce the mortality rate of breast cancer 
patients. microRNAs (miRNA) have been shown to regulate the occurrences and 
progression of many types of cancers. Thus, it is crucial to find novel 
biomarkers in breast cancer. miR-449c-5p acted as a biomarker in non-small cell 
lung cancer, gastric carcinoma, and so forth. ERBB2 is an ideal target for 
breast cancer therapy. However, the molecular mechanisms between miR-449c-5p and 
ERBB2 in breast cancer remain poorly understood. Our study focused on the 
regulatory role of miR-449c-5p in breast cancer and its targeting relationship 
with ERBB2.
METHODS: The miR-449c-5p expression in breast cancer tissue and normal tissue 
was searched from the online database (Starbase). The clinical prognosis of 
miR-449c-5p and ERBB2 was predicted by using the Kaplan-Meier analysis method. 
The expression of miR-449c-5p mimics and inhibitors was measured by qRT-PCR. 
T47D cells were transfected with miR-449c-5p mimics and miR-449c-5p inhibitors. 
After that, CCK-8, colony formation assays and Transwell assays were used to 
evaluate the cell proliferation ability, migration and invasion. Whether ERBB2 
was the target gene of the miR-449c-5p was predicted by Starbase and verified by 
dual-luciferase activity assay. In addition, protein levels and the relationship 
between signalling pathways were measured and validated using western blotting 
analysis.
RESULTS: We confirmed that miR-449c-5p was highly expressed in breast cancer 
tissue, and its downregulation was linked with poor prognosis. Overexpression of 
miR-449c-5p inhibited the proliferation, migration and invasion of breast cancer 
cells. ERBB2 was a target of miR-449c-5p. The invasion, migration, and 
proliferation of breast cancer cells were inhibited by miR-449c-5p/ERBB2 through 
JAK-STAT.
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrated that miR-449c-5p inhibits breast cancer cell 
proliferation, migration and invasion by targeting ERBB2 via JAK/STAT, which 
means miR-449c-5p, is a potential biomarker for breast cancer and provides a 
novel insight for diagnosis.

© 2024 The Authors. Cancer Reports published by Wiley Periodicals LLC.

DOI: 10.1002/cnr2.1974
PMCID: PMC10864726
PMID: 38351535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No benefits in any form have been or will be 
received from a commercial party related directly or indirectly to the subject 
of this manuscript.


26. Cell Signal. 2024 May;117:111079. doi: 10.1016/j.cellsig.2024.111079. Epub 2024 
Feb 8.

Circ-FOXO3 inhibits triple-negative breast cancer growth and metastasis via 
regulating WHSC1-H3K36me2-Zeb2 axis.

Chen D(1), Zeng S(1), Qiu H(2), Yang M(1), Lin X(1), Lv X(3), Li P(1), Weng 
S(1), Kou S(1), Luo K(1), Liu Z(4), Yi Y(5), Liu H(6).

Author information:
(1)Affiliated Cancer Hospital & Institute of Guangzhou Medical University, 
Guangzhou Key Laboratory of "Translational Medicine on Malignant Tumor 
Treatment", Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.
(2)The Sixth Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou Medical University, Qingyuan 
People's Hospital, Qingyuan, Guangdong, China.
(3)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Guangdong Medical University, Zhanjiang, 
Guangdong, China.
(4)Laboratory of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Guangzhou Women and Children's 
Medical Center, Guangzhou Medical University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China. 
Electronic address: liuzongcai800@sina.com.
(5)School of Basic Medical Sciences, Guangdong Medical University, Zhanjiang, 
Guangdong, China. Electronic address: yiymei@gdmu.edu.cn.
(6)Affiliated Cancer Hospital & Institute of Guangzhou Medical University, 
Guangzhou Key Laboratory of "Translational Medicine on Malignant Tumor 
Treatment", Guangzhou, Guangdong, China. Electronic address: 
liuhao@gzhmu.edu.cn.

Circular RNAs (circRNAs), a subclass of non-coding RNAs characterized by 
covalently closed continuous loops, play a key role in tumorigenesis and 
aggressiveness. However, the potential molecular mechanism of circRNAs in 
triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) remains largely unknown. Exploring their 
roles and mechanisms in TNBC progression may help identify new diagnostic 
markers and therapeutic targets. In this study, we found that circ-FOXO3 was 
dramatically downregulated in TNBC tissues and blood samples from patients with 
TNBC. Notably, low circ-FOXO3 expression in TNBC tissues and bloods was 
associated with lymph node metastasis and unfavorable outcomes in patients with 
TNBC. Overexpression of circ-FOXO3 significantly inhibited the growth, invasion, 
and metastasis of TNBC cells both in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, we 
demonstrated that circ-FOXO3 was predominantly expressed in the cytoplasm and 
directly interacted with Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome candidate 1 (WHSC1), thereby 
inhibiting WHSC1 nuclear localization and activity, resulting in the inhibition 
of H3K36me2 modifications at the Zeb2 promoter, ultimately inhibiting Zeb2 
expression and halting TNBC growth and metastasis. Taken together, these results 
reveal the tumor-suppressive functions of circ-FOXO3 in inhibiting 
WHSC1-mediated H3K36me2 modification of Zeb2, suggesting that circ-FOXO3 could 
serve as a potential novel predictive prognostic biomarker and therapeutic 
target for TNBC.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cellsig.2024.111079
PMID: 38341124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no potential conflicts of interest.


27. Cancers (Basel). 2024 Feb 4;16(3):665. doi: 10.3390/cancers16030665.

MicroRNAs Associated with Androgen Receptor and Metastasis in Triple-Negative 
Breast Cancer.

Ahram M(1), Abu Alragheb B(2), Abushukair H(3), Bawadi R(1), Al-Hussaini M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Biochemistry, School of Medicine, The University 
of Jordan, Amman 11942, Jordan.
(2)School of Medicine, The University of Jordan, Amman 11942, Jordan.
(3)School of Medicine, Jordan University of Science and Technology, Irbid 22110, 
Jordan.
(4)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, King Hussein Cancer Center, 
Amman 11941, Jordan.

It is crucial to identify novel molecular biomarkers and therapeutic targets for 
triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). The androgen receptor (AR) is a regulator 
of TNBC, acting partially via microRNA molecules (miRNAs). In this study, we 
used PCR arrays to profile the expression of 84 miRNAs in 24 TNBC tissue 
samples, which were equally classified according to AR expression and/or 
metastasis. Several bioinformatics tools were then utilized to determine the 
potentially affected protein targets and signaling pathways. Seven miRNAs were 
found to be significantly more highly expressed in association with AR 
expression, including miR-328-3p and miR-489-3p. Increased expression of 
miR-205-3p was found to be significantly associated with metastasis. Certain 
miRNAs were specifically found to be differentially expressed in either 
metastatic or non-metastatic AR-positive tumors. A gene ontology (GO) analysis 
indicated biological roles in the regulation of transcription, cellular response 
to DNA damage, and the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) signaling 
pathway. The GO analysis also showed enrichment in kinase and transcription 
factor activities. The TGF-beta and a number of kinase-dependent pathways were 
also retrieved using the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) 
enrichment analyses. This study offers an understanding of the role of AR in 
TNBC and further implicates miRNAs in mediating the effects of AR on TNBC.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers16030665
PMCID: PMC10854913
PMID: 38339416

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


28. Cancers (Basel). 2024 Feb 3;16(3):657. doi: 10.3390/cancers16030657.

miR-622 Increases miR-30a Expression through Inhibition of Hypoxia-Inducible 
Factor 1α to Improve Metastasis and Chemoresistance in Human Invasive Breast 
Cancer Cells.

Cheng CW(1)(2), Liu YF(3), Liao WL(4)(5), Chen PM(1), Hung YT(1), Lee HJ(6), 
Cheng YC(7), Wu PE(8), Lu YS(9)(10), Shen CY(8)(11).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medicine, Chung Shan Medical University, Taichung 40201, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Medical Research, Chung Shan Medical University Hospital, 
Taichung 40201, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Chung Shan Medical University, Taichung 
40201, Taiwan.
(4)School of Medicine, China Medical University, Taichung 40604, Taiwan.
(5)Department of Medical Genetics and Medical Research, China Medical University 
Hospital, Taichung 40604, Taiwan.
(6)Department of Biochemistry, School of Medicine, College of Medicine, Chung 
Shan Medical University, Taichung 40201, Taiwan.
(7)Department of Internal Medicine, Cathay General Hospital, Taipei 10629, 
Taiwan.
(8)Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Academia Sinica, Taipei 11529, Taiwan.
(9)Department of Oncology, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei 10022, 
Taiwan.
(10)Department of Internal Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei 
10022, Taiwan.
(11)College of Public Health, China Medical University, Taichung 40604, Taiwan.

Hypoxia-inducible factor 1α (HIF-1α) plays a pivotal role in the survival, 
metastasis, and response to treatment of solid tumors. Autophagy serves as a 
mechanism for tumor cells to eliminate misfolded proteins and damaged 
organelles, thus promoting invasiveness, metastasis, and resistance to treatment 
under hypoxic conditions. MicroRNA (miRNA) research underscores the significance 
of these non-coding molecules in regulating cancer-related protein synthesis 
across diverse contexts. However, there is limited reporting on miRNA-mediated 
gene expression studies, especially with respect to epithelial-mesenchymal 
transition (EMT) and autophagy in the context of hypoxic breast cancer. Our 
study reveals decreased levels of miRNA-622 (miR-622) and miRNA-30a (miR-30a) in 
invasive breast cancer cells compared to their non-invasive counterparts. 
Inducing miR-622 suppresses HIF-1α protein expression, subsequently activating 
miR-30a transcription. This cascade results in reduced invasiveness and 
migration of breast cancer cells by inhibiting EMT markers, such as Snail, Slug, 
and vimentin. Furthermore, miR-30a negatively regulates beclin 1, ATG5, and 
LC3-II and inhibits Akt protein phosphorylation. Consequently, this improves the 
sensitivity of invasive MDA-MB-231 cells to docetaxel treatment. In conclusion, 
our study highlights the therapeutic potential of inducing miR-622 to promote 
miR-30a expression and thus disrupt HIF-1α-associated EMT and autophagy 
pathways. This innovative strategy presents a promising approach to the 
treatment of aggressive breast cancer.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers16030657
PMCID: PMC10854867
PMID: 38339408

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


29. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Feb 4;25(3):1879. doi: 10.3390/ijms25031879.

YTHDF1's Regulatory Involvement in Breast Cancer Prognosis, Immunity, and the 
ceRNA Network.

Luo W(1)(2), Zhou Y(1), Wang J(3), Wang K(3), Lin Q(1), Li Y(4), Xie Y(5), Li 
M(2), Wang J(6), Xiong L(1)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathophysiology, Medical College, Nanchang University, 461 Bayi 
Road, Nanchang 330006, China.
(2)Second Clinical Medical College, Nanchang University, Nanchang 330006, China.
(3)First Clinical Medical College, Nanchang University, Nanchang 330006, China.
(4)Queen Mary School, Nanchang University, Nanchang 330006, China.
(5)College of Pharmacy, Nanchang University, Nanchang 330006, China.
(6)Key Laboratory of Functional and Clinical Translational Medicine, Xiamen 
Medical College, Fujian Province University, Xiamen 361023, China.

YTH N6-methyladenosine RNA binding protein 1 (YTHDF1), an m6A reader, has a role 
in the development and progression of breast cancer as well as the immunological 
microenvironment. The networks of competing endogenous RNA in cancer have 
received much attention in research. In tumor gene therapy, the regulatory 
networks of m6A and competing endogenous RNA are increasingly emerging as a new 
route. We evaluated the relationship between the YTHDF1 expression, overall 
survival, and clinicopathology of breast cancer using TCGA, PrognoScan, and 
other datasets. We used Western blot to demonstrate that YTHDF1 is substantially 
expressed in breast cancer tissues. Furthermore, we explored YTHDF1's functions 
in the tumor mutational burden, microsatellite instability, and tumor 
microenvironment. Our findings indicate that YTHDF1 is a critical component of 
the m6A regulatory proteins in breast cancer and may have a particular function 
in the immunological microenvironment. Crucially, we investigated the 
relationship between YTHDF1 and the associated competitive endogenous RNA 
regulatory networks, innovatively creating three such networks 
(Dehydrogenase/Reductase 4-Antisense RNA 1-miR-378g-YTHDF1, HLA Complex Group 
9-miR-378g-YTHDF1, Taurine Up-regulated 1-miR-378g-YTHDF1). Furthermore, we 
showed that miR-378g could inhibit the expression of YTHDF1, and that 
miR-378g/YTHDF1 could impact MDA-MB-231 proliferation. We speculate that YTHDF1 
may serve as a biomarker for poor prognosis and differential diagnosis, impact 
the growth of breast cancer cells via the ceRNA network axis, and be a target 
for immunotherapy against breast cancer.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms25031879
PMCID: PMC10856278
PMID: 38339157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


30. Exp Oncol. 2024 Feb 3;45(4):421-431. doi: 10.15407/exp-oncology.2023.04.421.

EXPRESSION PROFILE OF miR-145, -182, -21, -27a, -29b, and -34a IN BREAST CANCER 
PATIENTS OF YOUNG AGE.

Chekhun V(1), Borikun T(1), Mushii O(1), Zadvornyi T(1), Martyniuk О(1), Kashuba 
E(1), Bazas V(1)(2), Hrybach S(3), Krotevych M(2), Lyalkin S(2), Lukianova N(1).

Author information:
(1)R.E. Kavetsky Institute of Experimental Pathology, Oncology and Radiobiology, 
NAS of Ukraine, Kyiv, Ukraine.
(2)National Cancer Institute, Ministry of Health of Ukraine, Kyiv, Ukraine.
(3)Kyiv Regional Oncology Dispensary, Kyiv, Ukraine.

BACKGROUND: Breast cancer (BC) in young women remains a significant public 
health concern. While progress has been made in understanding the etiology, 
diagnosis, and treatment of BC in this population, challenges persist. The 
identification and utilization of prognostic biomarkers offer valuable tools for 
tailoring treatment strategies and improving outcomes for BC patients.
AIM: To evaluate the relationship between the expression of tumor-associated 
microRNAs and the clinical and pathological features of BC in young patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The work is based on the results of the examination and 
treatment of 50 women younger than 45 years with stage I-II BC. miR-145, -182, 
-21, -27a, -29b, and -34a expression in tumor samples was analyzed by the 
real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction.
RESULTS: Higher expression of miR-182, -21, and -29b and lower levels of miR-27a 
were associated with tumor stage in young BC patients. Patients without lymph 
node metastases (N0) had significantly higher levels of miR-182, -27a, and -34a 
and lower levels of miR-29b compared to N1 cases (p < 0.05). Expression of 
miR-145, -182, -21, -27a, and -29b was associated with molecular BC subtypes.
CONCLUSION: Obtained results show that a high malignancy degree of BC in young 
women is associated with an increase in the miR-182, -21, -29b, and -34a 
expressions and a decrease in the miR-27a level in the tumor tissue, which 
indicates the prospects of the use of them for predicting the aggressiveness of 
the disease.

DOI: 10.15407/exp-oncology.2023.04.421
PMID: 38328848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Exp Oncol. 2024 Feb 3;45(4):451-456. doi: 10.15407/exp-oncology.2023.04.451.

ASSESSMENT OF CIRCULATING miRNA LEVELS IN BREAST CANCER PATIENTS DEPENDING ON 
CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS AND CHEMOTHERAPY.

Harashchenko О(1).

Author information:
(1)R.E. Kavetsky Institute of Experimental Pathology, Oncology and Radiobiology 
of the NAS of Ukraine, Kyiv, Ukraine.

BACKGROUND: Breast cancer (BC) stands out as the most prevalent cancer in women. 
The levels of miRNA expression before and after chemotherapy are considered a 
potential indicator for the prognosis of the disease.
AIM: To study blood plasma miRNA levels in BC patients and to assess their 
correlation with the menopausal status, disease stage, and molecular BC subtype.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Blood plasma levels of 6 miRNAs (miRNA-25, miRNA-27, 
miRNA-155, miRNA-200, miRNA-335, and miRNA-497) were studied in 70 BC patients 
and 18 healthy individuals using RT-PCR.
RESULTS: miRNA-25, miRNA-335, and miRNA-497 levels were significantly higher in 
BC patients, while a tendency toward a decrease in the miRNA-27 and miRNA-335 
levels in premenopausal patients and high miRNA-27 levels in menopausal patients 
was established. After neoadjuvant chemotherapy, a decrease in the miRNA-25 and 
miRNA-335 levels was registered.
CONCLUSIONS: The results indicated that miRNA-25, miRNA-27, miRNA-335, and 
miRNA-497 deserve attention as markers for assessing the efficacy of treatment 
of BC patients.

DOI: 10.15407/exp-oncology.2023.04.451
PMID: 38328845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Cancer Pathog Ther. 2023 May 12;1(3):159-167. doi: 10.1016/j.cpt.2023.04.002. 
eCollection 2023 Jul.

Value of negatively correlated miR-205-5p/HMGB3 and miR-96-5p/FOXO1 on the 
diagnosis of breast cancer and benign breast diseases.

Li J(1)(2), Peng S(3), Zou X(4), Geng X(5), Wang T(3), Zhu W(3), Xia T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Breast Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing 
Medical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu 210029, China.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, Jinling Hospital, Medical School of Nanjing 
University, Nanjing, Jiangsu 210002, China.
(3)Department of Oncology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical 
University, Nanjing, Jiangsu 210029, China.
(4)Department of Pancreatic Surgery, Fudan University Shanghai Cancer Center, 
Shanghai 200032 China.
(5)Department of Clinical Engineering, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing 
Medical University, Nanjing, Jiangsu 210029, China.

BACKGROUND: MicroRNA (miRNA) and mRNA levels in matching specimens were used to 
identify miRNA-mRNA interactions. We aimed to integrate transcriptome, 
immunophenotype, methylation, mutation, and survival data analyses to examine 
the profiles of miRNAs and target mRNAs and their associations with breast 
cancer (BC) diagnosis.
METHODS: Based on the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database and The Cancer 
Genome Atlas (TCGA), differentially expressed miRNAs and targeted mRNAs were 
screened from experimentally verified miRNA-target interaction databases using 
Pearson's correlation analysis. We used real-time quantitative reverse 
transcription polymerase chain reaction to verify BC and benign disease samples, 
and logistic regression analysis was used to establish a diagnostic model based 
on miRNAs and target mRNAs. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis was 
performed to test the ability to recognize the miRNA-mRNA pairs. Next, we 
investigated the complex interactions between miRNA-mRNA regulatory pairs and 
phenotypic hallmarks.
RESULTS: We identified 27 and 359 dysregulated miRNAs and mRNAs, respectively, 
based on the GEO and TCGA databases. Using Pearson's correlation analysis, 10 
negative miRNA-mRNA regulatory pairs were identified after screening both 
databases, and the related miRNA and target mRNA levels were assessed in 40 BC 
tissues and 40 benign breast disease tissues. Two key regulatory pairs 
(miR-205-5p/High mobility group box 3 (HMGB3) and miR-96-5p/Forkhead Box O1 
(FOXO1)) were selected to establish the diagnostic model. They also had utility 
in survival and clinical analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: A diagnostic model including two miRNAs and their respective target 
mRNAs was established to distinguish between BC and benign breast diseases. 
These markers play essential roles in BC pathogenesis.

© 2023 Published by Elsevier B.V. on behalf of Chinese Medical Association 
(CMA).

DOI: 10.1016/j.cpt.2023.04.002
PMCID: PMC10846318
PMID: 38327836


33. Cell Commun Signal. 2024 Feb 7;22(1):100. doi: 10.1186/s12964-023-01452-2.

MicroRNA signatures differentiate types, grades, and stages of breast invasive 
ductal carcinoma (IDC): miRNA-target interacting signaling pathways.

Verma VK(1), Beevi SS(#)(1), Nair RA(#)(2), Kumar A(1), Kiran R(1), Alexander 
LE(2), Dinesh Kumar L(3).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Biology, CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, (CSIR-CCMB) 
Uppal Road, Hyderabad, Telangana, 500007, India.
(2)Department of Pathology, Regional Cancer Centre (RCC), Medical College 
Campus, Trivandrum, 695011, India.
(3)Cancer Biology, CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, (CSIR-CCMB) 
Uppal Road, Hyderabad, Telangana, 500007, India. lekha@ccmb.res.in.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Invasive ductal carcinoma (IDC) is the most common form of breast 
cancer which accounts for 85% of all breast cancer diagnoses. Non-invasive and 
early stages have a better prognosis than late-stage invasive cancer that has 
spread to lymph nodes. The involvement of microRNAs (miRNAs) in the initiation 
and progression of breast cancer holds great promise for the development of 
molecular tools for early diagnosis and prognosis. Therefore, developing a cost 
effective, quick and robust early detection protocol using miRNAs for breast 
cancer diagnosis is an imminent need that could strengthen the health care 
system to tackle this disease around the world.
METHODS: We have analyzed putative miRNAs signatures in 100 breast cancer 
samples using two independent high fidelity array systems. Unique and common 
miRNA signatures from both array systems were validated using stringent 
double-blind individual TaqMan assays and their expression pattern was confirmed 
with tissue microarrays and northern analysis. In silico analysis were carried 
out to find miRNA targets and were validated with q-PCR and immunoblotting. In 
addition, functional validation using antibody arrays was also carried out to 
confirm the oncotargets and their networking in different pathways. Similar 
profiling was carried out in Brca2/p53 double knock out mice models using rodent 
miRNA microarrays that revealed common signatures with human arrays which could 
be used for future in vivo functional validation.
RESULTS: Expression profile revealed 85% downregulated and 15% upregulated 
microRNAs in the patient samples of IDC. Among them, 439 miRNAs were associated 
with breast cancer, out of which 107 miRNAs qualified to be potential biomarkers 
for the stratification of different types, grades and stages of IDC after 
stringent validation. Functional validation of their putative targets revealed 
extensive miRNA network in different oncogenic pathways thus contributing to 
epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and cellular plasticity.
CONCLUSION: This study revealed potential biomarkers for the robust 
classification as well as rapid, cost effective and early detection of IDC of 
breast cancer. It not only confirmed the role of these miRNAs in cancer 
development but also revealed the oncogenic pathways involved in different 
progressive grades and stages thus suggesting a role in EMT and cellular 
plasticity during breast tumorigenesis per se and IDC in particular. Thus, our 
findings have provided newer insights into the miRNA signatures for the 
classification and early detection of IDC.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12964-023-01452-2
PMCID: PMC10851529
PMID: 38326829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


34. Clin Med Insights Oncol. 2024 Feb 5;18:11795549241227415. doi: 
10.1177/11795549241227415. eCollection 2024.

The Implication of Growth Arrest-Specific 5 rs145204276 Polymorphism and Serum 
Expression of Sirtuin 1, Transforming Growth Factor-Beta, and microRNA-182 in 
Breast Cancer.

Hasona NA(1), Elsabahy M(2), Shaker OG(3), Zaki O(4), Ayeldeen G(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, Beni-Suef University, Beni 
Suef, Egypt.
(2)Badr University in Cairo Research Center, Badr University in Cairo, Badr 
City, Egypt.
(3)Department of Medical Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Faculty of 
Medicine, Cairo University, Giza, Egypt.
(4)Department of Clinical Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, Damietta University, 
New Damietta, Egypt.

BACKGROUND: Breast cancer (BC) patients have a higher chance of survival if it 
is diagnosed at an early stage, which is essential for efficient treatment of 
the condition. The results of an elevated risk of cancer, including BC, 
previously associated with the ins/del polymorphism rs145204276 in the promoter 
region of growth arrest-specific 5 (GAS5) are still up for debate. Thus, this 
study aimed to appraise the frequency of the GAS5 rs145204276 variant with BC 
risk and demonstrate the potential impact of the sirtuin 1 (SIRT-1), 
transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β), and microRNA-182 (miR-182) expression 
and their diagnostic value in BC.
METHODS: Blood samples of 155 patients with BC and fibroadenoma and 80 healthy 
controls were analyzed for GAS5 rs145204276 single nucleotide polymorphism 
(SNP), SIRT-1, TGF-β, and miRNA-182 expression levels.
RESULTS: Ins/ins genotype and ins allele frequencies for GAS5 rs145204276 were 
considerably higher in BC patients compared with controls. Patients with BC had 
significantly greater serum levels of TGF-β, miR-182, and SIRT-1 expression.
CONCLUSIONS: The SIRT-1, TGF-β, and miR-182 genes provide novel, noninvasive 
diagnostic biomarkers for BC.

© The Author(s) 2024.

DOI: 10.1177/11795549241227415
PMCID: PMC10846042
PMID: 38322669

Conflict of interest statement: The author(s) declared no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this 
article.


35. Epigenomics. 2024 Feb;16(4):215-231. doi: 10.2217/epi-2023-0100. Epub 2024 Feb 
6.

POU2F2-mediated upregulation of lncRNA PTPRG-AS1 inhibits ferroptosis in breast 
cancer via miR-376c-3p/SLC7A11 axis.

Li J(1), Li PT(1), Wu W(1), Ding BN(1), Wen YG(1), Cai HL(1), Liu SX(1), Hong 
T(2), Zhang JF(3), Zhou JD(4), Qian LY(1), Du J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Breast & Thyroid Surgery, The Third Xiangya Hospital, Central 
South University, Changsha, 410013, Hunan Province, China.
(2)Department of Breast & Thyroid Surgery, The Second Affiliated Hospital of 
Nanchang University, Nanchang, 330008, Jiangxi Province, China.
(3)Department of Plastic Surgery, The Second Affiliated Hospital of the 
University of South China, Hengyang, 421000, Hunan Province, China.
(4)Department of Plastic Surgery, The Third Xiangya Hospital, Central South 
University, Changsha, 410013, Hunan Province, China.

Background: Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is a subtype of BC with high 
rates of mortality. The mechanism of PTPRG-AS1 in ferroptosis of TNBC was 
investigated. Methods: Chromatin immunoprecipitation and dual-luciferase 
reporter assays were used to measure intermolecular relationships. MTT and 
colony formation assays detected cell viability and proliferation. Kits detected 
Fe2+ and reactive oxygen species levels. The role of PTPRG-AS1 in tumor growth 
was analyzed in vivo. Results: PTPRG-AS1 was increased in TNBC tissues and 
cells. PTPRG-AS1 silencing increased the reduction of glutathione and GPX4, 
increased Fe2+ and reactive oxygen species in erastin-treated cells and 
inhibited proliferation. POU2F2 transcriptionally upregulated PTPRG-AS1. 
PTPRG-AS1 targeted miR-376c-3p to upregulate SLC7A11. PTPRG-AS1 knockdown 
suppressed tumor growth in vivo. Conclusion: POU2F2 transcriptionally activates 
PTPRG-AS1 to modulate ferroptosis and proliferation by miR-376c-3p/SLC7A11, 
promoting TNBC.

Plain Language Summary: Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is a kind of breast 
cancer with high recurrence and low survival rates. Activation of the 
ferroptosis pathway can inhibit BC proliferation and distant metastasis. 
Therefore, identifying effective biomarkers and molecular mechanisms of 
ferroptosis in TNBC is important for its earlier detection and therapy. 
PTPRG-AS1 is a new type of lncRNA discovered in recent years that is increased 
in various diseases and is related to prognosis. In the present study, the 
authors found that POU2F2 promoted PTPRG-AS1 transcription. PTPRG-AS1 knockdown 
activated ferroptosis in TNBC and inhibited proliferation. Mechanistically, 
PTPRG-AS1 targeted miR-376c-3p to upregulate SLC7A11, thereby inhibiting 
ferroptosis and promoting TNBC development. These results indicate that 
PTPRG-AS1 is a possible therapeutic target in TNBC.

DOI: 10.2217/epi-2023-0100
PMID: 38318853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Heliyon. 2024 Jan 18;10(2):e24803. doi: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e24803. 
eCollection 2024 Jan 30.

microRNAs expression profile in phyllodes tumors of the breast.

Hachana MR(1)(2), Maatouk M(3), Lassouad Z(2), Sriha B(2), Mokni M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Higher School of Health of Monastir, University of 
Monastir, Tunisia.
(2)Department of Pathology, CHU Farhat Hached of Sousse, Tunisia.
(3)Unit of Natural Bioactive Substances and Biotechnology UR12ES12, Faculty of 
Pharmacy of Monastir, University of Monastir, Tunisia.

Proliferation of both stromal and epithelial components is a characteristic of 
fibroepithelial cancers of the breast. Certain fibroepithelial tumors of the 
breast, such as fibradenomas and phyllodes tumors, are challenging to 
distinguish and categorize. To find biomarkers for early diagnosis and improved 
disease management, it is crucial to deepen our understanding of the molecular 
pathogenesis pathways and tumor biology of PTs. It has been demonstrated that 
microRNAs (miRNAs) have significant roles in cancers; the expression pattern of 
miRNAs can help with cancer categorization and treatment. In contrast, little is 
understood about miRNAs in breast fibroepithelial cancers. This study was 
conducted retrospectively with the goal of assessing the expression of six 
mature miRNAs (hsa-miR-21, hsa-miR-155, hsa-miR-182, hsa-miR-34a, hsa-miR-148a, 
and hsa-miR-205) in breast fibroepithelial cancers using real-time PCR and 
predicting these miRNAs' targets using computational techniques. This study 
comprised 64 patients in total-55 with phyllodes tumors and 9 with fibroadenoma. 
The research was carried out at the Farhat Hached University Hospital's 
pathology department in Tunisia. These particular miRNAs expression levels were 
evaluated via qRT-PCR, and in silico techniques were utilized to predict 
potential miRNA targets. Analysis of miRNA expression in fibroadenoma and 
phyllodes tumor tissues revealed that miR-21, miR-155 and miR-182 were 
upregulated in PTs compared to fibroadenoma and normal tissues. We reported that 
miR-34a, miR-148a and miR-205 were downregulated in both borderline and 
malignant PTs compared to fibroadenoma and normal tissue. In silico miRNA target 
prediction suggested the involvement of these molecules in a wide context of 
cell signaling pathways.

© 2024 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e24803
PMCID: PMC10835222
PMID: 38312609

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare the following financial 
interests/personal relationships which may be considered as potential competing 
interests: Mohamed Ridha Hachana reports financial support was provided by 
Farhat Hached University Hospital of Sousse. If there are other authors, they 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.


37. Sci Rep. 2024 Feb 2;14(1):2773. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-52878-8.

Author Correction: Circulating ESR1, long non-coding RNA HOTAIR and 
microRNA-130a gene expression as biomarkers for breast cancer stage and 
metastasis.

Abdel-Hamid NR(1), Mohammed EA(1), Toraih EA(1)(2), Kamel MM(3)(4), Abdelhafiz 
AS(5), Badr FM(1).

Author information:
(1)Genetics Unit, Department of Histology and Cell Biology, Faculty of Medicine, 
Suez Canal University, Ismailia, Egypt.
(2)Division of Endocrine and Oncologic Surgery, Department of Surgery, School of 
Medicine, Tulane University, New Orleans, LA, 70112, USA.
(3)Department of Clinical Pathology, National Cancer Institute, Cairo 
University, Kasr Al-Aini Street, From El-Khalig Square, Cairo, 11796, Egypt.
(4)Baheya Centre for Early Detection and Treatment of Breast Cancer, Giza, 
Egypt.
(5)Department of Clinical Pathology, National Cancer Institute, Cairo 
University, Kasr Al-Aini Street, From El-Khalig Square, Cairo, 11796, Egypt. 
ahmed.samir@nci.cu.edu.eg.

Erratum for
    Sci Rep. 2023 Dec 19;13(1):22654.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-52878-8
PMCID: PMC10837139
PMID: 38307964


38. Front Nutr. 2024 Jan 18;11:1339919. doi: 10.3389/fnut.2024.1339919. eCollection 
2024.

Characterization of exosomal microRNAs in preterm infants fed with breast milk 
and infant formula.

Kim EB(#)(1), Song JH(#)(2), Le LN(3), Kim H(2), Koh JW(2), Seo Y(2), Jeong 
HR(4), Kim HT(1), Ryu S(3).

Author information:
(1)Soonchunhyang Institute of Med-bio Science (SIMS), Soonchunhyang University, 
Cheonan, Republic of Korea.
(2)Soonchunhyang University Cheonan Hospital, College of Medicine, 
Soon-chunhyang University, Cheonan, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Integrated Biomedical Science, Soonchunhyang University, 
Cheonan, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, College of Medicine, Soonchunhyang University, 
Cheonan, Republic of Korea.
(#)Contributed equally

Breastfeeding not only reduces infection-related morbidity, but also increases 
growth of preterm infants. Advantages of breast milk (BM) for preterm infants 
are significant. They continue to be studied. However, because not all preterm 
infants can receive breastfeeding, bovine-based infant formula (IF) is used as 
an alternative, which may increase the risk of several preterm complications. 
Exosomes isolated from biofluids are emerging as biomarkers in research of 
various diseases. Here, we characterized miRNA contents of exosomes in urine and 
serum samples of preterm infants who were BM and IF fed and performed 
transcriptomic analysis of small RNA libraries. We identified significantly 
up-regulated 6 miRNAs and 10 miRNAs, respectively. Gene Ontology (GO) analysis 
revealed that target genes of these miRNAs might participate in neuronal 
development, immunity modulation, detoxification of reactive oxygen species, and 
transmembrane exchange. Our data suggest that exosome-based systemic screening 
for preterm infants with breastfeeding might be a screening tool for identifying 
target molecules involved in therapy for preterm infants in neonatal intensive 
care unit (NICU) and for future application as nutraceutical formulations or 
pharmaceuticals.

Copyright © 2024 Kim, Song, Le, Kim, Koh, Seo, Jeong, Kim and Ryu.

DOI: 10.3389/fnut.2024.1339919
PMCID: PMC10830786
PMID: 38304545

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


39. J Cancer Res Clin Oncol. 2024 Feb 1;150(2):63. doi: 10.1007/s00432-023-05601-5.

In vivo validation of the functional role of MicroRNA-4638-3p in breast cancer 
bone metastasis.

Akshaya RL(1), Saranya I(1), Salomi GM(2), Shanthi P(3), Ilangovan R(4), 
Venkataraman P(5), Selvamurugan N(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, School of Bioengineering, SRM Institute of 
Science and Technology, Kattankulathur, Tamil Nadu, 603 203, India.
(2)SRM-DBT Platform, SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Kattankulathur, 
Tamil Nadu, 603 203, India.
(3)Department of Pathology, Dr. A.L.M. PG Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, 
University of Madras, Taramani, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.
(4)Department of Endocrinology, Dr. A.L.M. PG Institute of Basic Medical 
Sciences, University of Madras, Taramani, Chennai, Tamil Nadu, India.
(5)Department of Medical Research, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, SRM 
Institute of Science and Technology, Kattankulathur, India.
(6)Department of Biotechnology, School of Bioengineering, SRM Institute of 
Science and Technology, Kattankulathur, Tamil Nadu, 603 203, India. 
selvamun@srmist.edu.in.

PURPOSE: Skeletal metastases are increasingly reported in metastatic 
triple-negative breast cancer (BC) patients. We previously reported that TGF-β1 
sustains activating transcription factor 3(ATF3) expression and is required for 
cell proliferation, invasion, and bone metastasis genes. Increasing studies 
suggest the critical regulatory function of microRNAs (miRNAs) in governing BC 
pathogenesis. TGF-β1 downregulated the expression of miR-4638-3p, which targets 
ATF3 in human BC cells (MDA-MB-231). In the present study, we aimed to identify 
the functional role of miR-4638-3p in BC bone metastasis by the caudal artery 
injection of the MDA-MB-231 cells overexpressing mir-4638 in the mice.
METHODS: MDA-MB-231 cells overexpressing miR-4638 were prepared by stable 
transfections. Reverse transcriptase quantitative PCR was carried out to 
determine the expression of endogenous miR-4638-3p and bone resorption marker 
genes. X-ray, micro-CT, and Hematoxylin & Eosin studies were used to determine 
osteolytic lesions, trabecular structure, bone mineral density, and 
micrometastasis of cells.
RESULTS: The mice injected with MDA-MB-231 cells overexpressing miR-4638-3p 
decreased the expression of bone resorption marker genes, compared to MDA-MB-231 
cells injection. Reduced osteolytic lesions and restored bone density by 
MDA-MB-231 cells overexpressing miR-4638-3p were observed. Similarly, the mice 
injected with MDA-MB-231 cells overexpressing miR-4638-3p showed a better 
microarchitecture of the trabecular network. A few abnormal cells seen in the 
femur of MDA-MB-231 cells-injected mice were not found in MDA-MB-231 cells 
overexpressing miR-4638.
CONCLUSION: The identified functional role of ATF3 targeting miR-4638-3p in BC 
bone metastasis in vivo suggests its candidature as BC therapeutics in the 
future.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s00432-023-05601-5
PMCID: PMC10834561
PMID: 38300343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no known 
competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have 
influenced the work reported in this study. The authors declare that they have 
no conflicts of interest.


40. J Transl Med. 2024 Jan 28;22(1):112. doi: 10.1186/s12967-024-04914-4.

Exosomal miR-361-3p promotes the viability of breast cancer cells by targeting 
ETV7 and BATF2 to upregulate the PAI-1/ERK pathway.

Li Y(#)(1), Fan L(#)(1), Yan A(#)(2), Ren X(1), Zhao Y(2), Hua B(3).

Author information:
(1)Breast center, Department of Thyroid-Breast-Hernia Surgery, Department of 
General Surgery, Beijing Hospital, National Center of Gerontology, Institute of 
Geriatric Medicine, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing, People's 
Republic of China.
(2)The Key Laboratory of Geriatrics, Beijing Institute of Geriatrics, Institute 
of Geriatric Medicine, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing 
Hospital/National Center of Gerontology of National Health Commission, Beijing, 
People's Republic of China.
(3)Breast center, Department of Thyroid-Breast-Hernia Surgery, Department of 
General Surgery, Beijing Hospital, National Center of Gerontology, Institute of 
Geriatric Medicine, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing, People's 
Republic of China. huabinbjh@126.com.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Malignant progression is the major cause of poor prognosis in breast 
cancer (BC) patients. Plasma exosomal miRNAs have been reported to be involved 
in tumor progression, but their roles in BC remain unclear.
METHODS: We performed plasma exosomal miRNA sequencing on 45 individuals, 
including healthy controls and nonmetastatic and metastatic BC patients. We 
examined the correlation between miRNA expression in tumor tissues and plasma 
exosomes in BC patients by qRT‒PCR. The effects of exosomal miR-361-3p on BC 
cells were determined by CellTiter-Glo, migration and wound healing assays. The 
target genes of miR-361-3p and downstream pathways were explored by 
dual-luciferase reporter assay, RNA knockdown, rescue experiments, and western 
blotting. We utilized murine xenograft model to further assess the impact of 
plasma exosomal miR-361-3p on the malignant progression of BC.
RESULTS: We found that the expression level of plasma exosomal miR-361-3p 
gradually increased with malignant progression in BC patients, and the 
expression of miR-361-3p in plasma exosomes and BC tissues was positively 
correlated. Consistently, exosomal miR-361-3p enhanced the migration and 
proliferation of two BC cell lines, MDA-MB-231 and SK-BR-3. Furthermore, our 
data showed that miR-361-3p inhibited two novel target genes, ETV7 and BATF2, to 
activate the PAI-1/ERK pathway, leading to increased BC cell viability. Finally, 
the consistency of the in vivo experimental results supported that elevated 
plasma exosomal miR-361-3p promote the malignant progression of BC.
CONCLUSIONS: We found for the first time that plasma exosomal miR-361-3p was 
associated with malignant progression in BC patients. Mechanistically, exosomal 
miR-361-3p can enhance the migration and proliferation of BC cells by targeting 
the ETV7 and BATF2/PAI-1/ERK pathways. Our data suggest that plasma exosomal 
miR-361-3p has the potential to serve as a biomarker for predicting malignant 
progression in BC patients.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12967-024-04914-4
PMCID: PMC10823750
PMID: 38282047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


41. Oncogene. 2024 Mar;43(11):821-836. doi: 10.1038/s41388-024-02950-4. Epub 2024 
Jan 27.

Novel exosomal circEGFR facilitates triple negative breast cancer autophagy via 
promoting TFEB nuclear trafficking and modulating miR-224-5p/ATG13/ULK1 feedback 
loop.

Song H(#)(1), Zhao Z(#)(2), Ma L(2), Zhao W(3), Hu Y(4), Song Y(5).

Author information:
(1)Senior Department of Oncology, the Fifth Medical Center, Chinese PLA General 
Hospital, Beijing, 100853, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Molecular Oncology, National Cancer Center/National 
Clinical Research Center for Cancer/Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical 
Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, 100021, China.
(3)Department of Medical Oncology, Chinese PLA General Hospital, Beijing, 
100853, China. zhaowh0818@163.com.
(4)Senior Department of Oncology, the Fifth Medical Center, Chinese PLA General 
Hospital, Beijing, 100853, China. huyi301zlxb@sina.com.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Molecular Oncology, National Cancer Center/National 
Clinical Research Center for Cancer/Cancer Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical 
Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, 100021, China. 
symlh2006@163.com.
(#)Contributed equally

Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) cells are in a more hypoxic and starved 
state than non-TNBC cells, which makes TNBC cells always maintain high autophagy 
levels. Emerging evidence has demonstrated that circular RNAs (circRNAs) are 
involved in the progress of tumorigenesis. However, the regulation and functions 
of autophagy-induced circRNAs in TNBC remain unclear. In our study, 
autophagy-responsive circRNA candidates in TNBC cells under amino acid starved 
were identified by RNA sequencing. The results showed that circEGFR expression 
was significantly upregulated in autophagic cells. Knockdown of circEGFR 
inhibited autophagy in TNBC cells, and circEGFR derived from exosomes induced 
autophagy in recipient cells in the tumor microenvironment. In vitro and in vivo 
functional assays identified circEGFR as an oncogenic circRNA in TNBC. 
Clinically, circEGFR was significantly upregulated in TNBC and was positively 
associated with lymph node metastasis. CircEGFR in plasma-derived exosomes was 
upregulated in breast cancer patients compared with healthy people. 
Mechanistically, circEGFR facilitated the translocation of Annexin A2 (ANXA2) 
toward the plasma membrane in TNBC cells, which led to the release of 
Transcription Factor EB (a transcription factor of autophagy-related proteins, 
TFEB) from ANXA2-TFEB complex, causing nuclear translocation of TFEB, thereby 
promoting autophagy in TNBC cells. Meanwhile, circEGFR acted as ceRNA by 
directly binding to miR-224-5p and inhibited the expression of miR-224-5p, which 
weakened the suppressive role of miR-224-5p/ATG13/ULK1 axis on autophagy. 
Overall, our study demonstrates the key role of circEGFR in autophagy, malignant 
progression, and metastasis of TNBC. These indicate circEGFR is a potential 
diagnosis biomarker and therapeutic target for TNBC.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41388-024-02950-4
PMCID: PMC10920198
PMID: 38280941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


42. Discov Oncol. 2024 Jan 27;15(1):19. doi: 10.1007/s12672-024-00871-y.

Clinical importance of serum miRNA levels in breast cancer patients.

Turkoglu F(1), Calisir A(2), Ozturk B(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Selcuk University, 
Akademi Mahallesi Yeni İstanbul Caddesi No:313, Selçuk Üniversitesi Alaeddin 
Keykubat Yerleşkesi, Selçuklu, Konya, 42130, Turkey. profatih@hotmail.com.
(2)Department of General Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Selcuk University, 
Akademi Mahallesi Yeni İstanbul Caddesi No:313, Selçuk Üniversitesi Alaeddin 
Keykubat Yerleşkesi, Selçuklu, Konya, 42130, Turkey.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Selcuk University, Konya, 
Turkey.

There is limited data on the relationship of miRNAs with parameters that may 
affect surgical management or reflect tumour prognosis. It was aimed to evaluate 
serum miRNA levels in breast carcinoma cases and reveal the relationship between 
these levels and prognosis-related factors such as the histological type of the 
tumour, estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, Ki-67 index, HER-2neu, 
E-cadherin, tumour size, CK5/6, CA15.3 levels, number of tumour foci, number of 
metastatic lymph nodes, and status of receiving neoadjuvant therapy. Thirty-five 
patients with a histopathologically confirmed breast carcinoma diagnosis in the 
case group and 35 healthy individuals in the control group were examined. 
miR-206, miR-17-5p, miR-125a, miR-125b, miR-200a, Let-7a, miR-34a, miR-31, 
miR-21, miR-155, miR-10b, miR-373, miR-520c, miR-210, miR-145, miR-139-5p, 
miR-195, miR-99a, miR-497 and miR-205 expression levels in the serum of 
participants were determined using the Polymerase Chain Reaction method. While 
serum miR-125b and Let-7a expression levels were significantly higher in breast 
cancer patients, miR-17-5p, miR-125a, miR-200a, miR-34a, miR-21, miR-99a and 
miR-497 levels were significantly lower in them. The Let-7a expression level had 
a statistically significant relationship with breast cancer histological type 
and HER-2neu parameters, miR-17-5p, miR-125b, Let-7a, miR-34a, miR-21 and 
miR-99a levels with E-cadherin, miR-34a, miR-99a and miR-497 with CA15.3, 
miR-125b, miR-200a and miR-34a with the number of metastatic lymph nodes, 
miR-125a with the number of tumour foci and miR-200a with the status of having 
the neoadjuvant therapy. Serum miR-17-5p, miR-125a, miR-125b, miR-200a, Let-7a, 
miR-34a, miR-21, miR-99a and miR-497 expression levels were determined to have 
predictive and prognostic importance in breast cancer.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s12672-024-00871-y
PMCID: PMC10821853
PMID: 38280134

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


43. Int J Mol Sci. 2024 Jan 20;25(2):1295. doi: 10.3390/ijms25021295.

Exosomal microRNA-92b Is a Diagnostic Biomarker in Breast Cancer and Targets 
Survival-Related MTSS1L to Promote Tumorigenesis.

Kan JY(1), Shih SL(1), Yang SF(2), Chu PY(3), Chen FM(1), Li CL(1), Wu YC(1)(4), 
Yeh YT(5), Hou MF(1)(6), Chiang CP(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Breast Oncology and Surgery, Department of Surgery, Kaohsiung 
Medical University Hospital, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung 80756, 
Taiwan.
(2)Department of Pathology, Kaohsiung Medical University Hospital, Kaohsiung 
Medical University, Kaohsiung 80756, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Pathology, Show Chwan Memorial Hospital, Changhua 50544, 
Taiwan.
(4)Division of Plastic Surgery, Department of Surgery, Kaohsiung Medical 
University Hospital, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung 80756, Taiwan.
(5)Department of Medical Laboratory Sciences and Biotechnology, Fooyin 
University, Kaohsiung 83130, Taiwan.
(6)Department of Biomedical Science and Environmental Biology, College of Life 
Science, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung 80756, Taiwan.

Exosomal microRNAs (miRNAs) are novel, non-invasive biomarkers for facilitating 
communication and diagnosing cancer. However, only a few studies have 
investigated their function and role in the clinical diagnosis of breast cancer. 
To address this gap, we established a stable cell line, MDA-MB-231-CD63-RFP, and 
recruited 112 female participants for serum collection. We screened 88 exosomal 
miRNAs identified through microarray analysis of 231-CD63 and literature 
screening using real-time PCR; only exosomal miR-92b-5p was significantly 
increased in patients with breast cancer. It had a significant correlation with 
stage and discriminated patients from the control with an AUC of 0.787. Exosomal 
miR-92b-5p impacted the migration, adhesion, and spreading ability of normal 
human mammary epithelial recipient cells through the downregulation of the actin 
dynamics regulator MTSS1L. In clinical breast cancer tissue, the expression of 
MTSS1L was significantly inversely correlated with tissue miR-92b-5p, and high 
expression of MTSS1L was associated with better 10-year overall survival rates 
in patients undergoing hormone therapy. In summary, our studies demonstrated 
that exosomal miR-92b-5p might function as a non-invasive body fluid biomarker 
for breast cancer detection and provide a novel therapeutic strategy in the axis 
of miR-92b-5p to MTSS1L for controlling metastasis and improving patient 
survival.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms25021295
PMCID: PMC10816035
PMID: 38279296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that there are no conflicts 
of interest that could be perceived as prejudicing the impartiality of the 
research reported.


44. RSC Adv. 2024 Jan 23;14(5):3599-3610. doi: 10.1039/d3ra05723b. eCollection 2024 
Jan 17.

Complete characterization of RNA biomarker fingerprints using a multi-modal 
ATR-FTIR and SERS approach for label-free early breast cancer diagnosis.

Zhang S(1), Wu SQY(1), Hum M(2), Perumal J(1), Tan EY(3)(4), Lee ASG(2)(5)(6), 
Teng J(1), Dinish US(1), Olivo M(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Materials Research and Engineering (IMRE), Agency for Science, 
Technology and Research (A*STAR) 2 Fusionopolis Way, Innovis #08-03 Singapore 
138634 Republic of Singapore jh-teng@imre.a-star.edu.sg 
dinish@asrl.a-star.edu.sg malini_olivo@asrl.a-star.edu.sg.
(2)Division of Cellular and Molecular Research, Humphrey Oei Institute of Cancer 
Research, National Cancer Centre Singapore (NCCS) 30 Hospital Boulevard 
Singapore 168583 Republic of Singapore dmslsg@nccs.com.sg.
(3)Breast & Endocrine Surgery, Tan Tock Seng Hospital (TTSH) 11 Jln Tan Tock 
Seng Singapore 308433 Republic of Singapore.
(4)Lee Kong Chian School of Medicine, Nanyang Technological University 50 
Nanyang Avenue Singapore 639798 Republic of Singapore.
(5)SingHealth Duke-NUS Oncology Academic Clinical Programme (ONCO ACP), Duke-NUS 
Medical School Singapore 169857 Republic of Singapore.
(6)Department of Physiology, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National 
University of Singapore Singapore 117593 Republic of Singapore.

Breast cancer is a prevalent form of cancer worldwide, and the current standard 
screening method, mammography, often requires invasive biopsy procedures for 
further assessment. Recent research has explored microRNAs (miRNAs) in 
circulating blood as potential biomarkers for early breast cancer diagnosis. In 
this study, we employed a multi-modal spectroscopy approach, combining 
attenuated total reflection Fourier transform infrared (ATR-FTIR) and 
surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) to comprehensively characterize the 
full-spectrum fingerprints of RNA biomarkers in the blood serum of breast cancer 
patients. The sensitivity of conventional FTIR and Raman spectroscopy was 
enhanced by ATR-FTIR and SERS through the utilization of a diamond ATR crystal 
and silver-coated silicon nanopillars, respectively. Moreover, a wider 
measurement wavelength range was achieved with the multi-modal approach than 
with a single spectroscopic method alone. We have shown the results on 91 
clinical samples, which comprised 44 malignant and 47 benign cases. Principal 
component analysis (PCA) was performed on the ATR-FTIR, SERS, and multi-modal 
data. From the peak analysis, we gained insights into biomolecular absorption 
and scattering-related features, which aid in the differentiation of malignant 
and benign samples. Applying 32 machine learning algorithms to the PCA results, 
we identified key molecular fingerprints and demonstrated that the multi-modal 
approach outperforms individual techniques, achieving higher average validation 
accuracy (95.1%), blind test accuracy (91.6%), specificity (94.7%), sensitivity 
(95.5%), and F-score (94.8%). The support vector machine (SVM) model showed the 
best area under the curve (AUC) characterization value of 0.9979, indicating 
excellent performance. These findings highlight the potential of the multi-modal 
spectroscopy approach as an accurate, reliable, and rapid method for 
distinguishing between malignant and benign breast tumors in women. Such a 
label-free approach holds promise for improving early breast cancer diagnosis 
and patient outcomes.

This journal is © The Royal Society of Chemistry.

DOI: 10.1039/d3ra05723b
PMCID: PMC10804230
PMID: 38264270

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts to declare.


45. ACS Nano. 2024 Feb 27;18(8):6266-6275. doi: 10.1021/acsnano.3c10543. Epub 2024 
Jan 22.

AI-Enhanced Visual-Spectral Synergy for Fast and Ultrasensitive Biodetection of 
Breast Cancer-Related miRNAs.

Wang W(1), Liu L(1), Zhu J(1), Xing Y(1), Jiao S(1), Wu Z(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Mechanical Engineering, Southeast University, Nanjing 211189, 
People's Republic of China.

In biomedical testing, artificial intelligence (AI)-enhanced analysis has 
gradually been applied to the diagnosis of certain diseases. This research 
employs AI algorithms to refine the precision of integrative detection, 
encompassing both visual results and fluorescence spectra from lateral flow 
assays (LFAs), which signal the presence of cancer-linked miRNAs. Specifically, 
the color shift of gold nanoparticles (GNPs) is paired with the red fluorescence 
from nitrogen vacancy color centers (NV-centers) in fluorescent nanodiamonds 
(FNDs) and is integrated into LFA strips. While GNPs amplify the fluorescence of 
FNDs, in turn, FNDs enhance the color intensity of GNPs. This reciprocal 
intensification of fluorescence and color can be synergistically augmented with 
AI algorithms, thereby improving the detection sensitivity for early diagnosis. 
Supported by the detection platform based on this strategy, the fastest 
detection results with a limit of detection (LOD) at the fM level and the R2 
value of ∼0.9916 for miRNA can be obtained within 5 min. Meanwhile, by labeling 
the capture probes for miRNA-21 and miRNA-96 (both of which are early indicators 
of breast cancer) on separate T-lines, simultaneous detection of them can be 
achieved. The miRNA detection methods employed in this study may potentially be 
applied in the future for the early detection of breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1021/acsnano.3c10543
PMID: 38252138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Cancer Biomark. 2023 Dec 28. doi: 10.3233/CBM-230396. Online ahead of print.

Involvement of FAM170B-AS1, hsa-miR-1202, and hsa-miR-146a-5p in breast cancer.

Abd ELhafeez AS(1), Ghanem HM(1), Swellam M(2)(3), Taha AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, Ain Shams University, Cairo, 
Egypt.
(2)Biochemistry Department, Biotechnology Research Institute, National Research 
Centre, Dokki, Giza, Egypt.
(3)High Throughput Molecular and Genetic laboratory, Central Laboratories 
Network and the Centers of Excellence, National Research Centre, Dokki, Giza, 
Egypt.

BACKGROUND: FAM170B-AS1 is usually expressed low in all organs except for 
testicular tissues. No study was performed to explore its role in breast cancer 
(BC). Contradictory results were reported about hsa-miR-1202 and hsa-miR-146a-5p 
in BC.
OBJECTIVE: The present study aimed to explore the involvement of FAM170B-AS1 in 
BC using bioinformatics predictive tools, followed by a practical validation 
besides exploring the impact of hsa-miR-1202 and hsa-miR-146a-5p in BC.
METHODS: This study enrolled 96 female patients with BC, 30 patients with benign 
breast diseases (BBD), and 25 control subjects. The expressions of circulating 
FAM170B-AS1, hsa-miR-1202, and hsa-miR-146a-5p were quantified using qRT-PCR. 
These ncRNAs' associations, predictive, and diagnostic roles in BC were 
statistically tested. The underlying miRNA/mRNA targets of FAM170B-AS1 in BC 
were bioinformatically predicted followed by confirmation based on the GEPIA and 
TCGA databases.
RESULTS: The expression of FAM170B-AS1 was upregulated in sera of BC patients 
and hsa-miR-1202 was upregulated in sera of BBD and BC patients while that of 
hsa-miR-146a-5p was downregulated in BC. These FAM170B-AS1 was significantly 
associated with BC when compared to BBD. FAM170B-AS1 and hsa-miR-1202 were 
statistically associated with the BC's stage, grade, and LN metastasis. 
FAM170B-AS1 and hsa-miR-146a-5p gave the highest specificity and sensitivity for 
BC. KRAS and EGFR were predicted to be targeted by FAM170B-AS1 through 
interaction with hsa-miR-143-3p and hsa-miR-7-5p, respectively. Based on the 
TCGA database, cancer patients having mutations in FAM170B show good overall 
survival.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study reported that for the first time, FAM170B-AS1 may 
be a potential risk factor, predictive, and diagnostic marker for BC. In 
addition, FAM170B-AS1 might be involved in BC by interacting with 
hsa-miR-143-3p/KRAS and hsa-miR-7-5p/EGFR through enhancement or repression that 
may present a new therapeutic option for BC.

DOI: 10.3233/CBM-230396
PMID: 38250762


47. Sci Rep. 2024 Jan 17;14(1):1483. doi: 10.1038/s41598-024-51947-2.

LncRNA SOX9-AS1 triggers a transcriptional program involved in lipid metabolic 
reprogramming, cell migration and invasion in triple-negative breast cancer.

Cisneros-Villanueva M(1)(2)(3), Fonseca-Montaño MA(1)(4), Ríos-Romero M(1), 
López-Camarillo C(5), Jiménez-Morales S(1), Langley E(6), Rosette-Rueda AS(1), 
Cedro-Tanda A(7), Hernández-Sotelo D(8), Hidalgo-Miranda A(9).

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio Genómica del Cáncer, Instituto Nacional de Medicina Genómica 
(INMEGEN), 14610, Mexico, México.
(2)Programa de Doctorado en Ciencias Biomédicas, Facultad de Ciencias Químico 
Biológicas, Universidad Autónoma de Guerrero (UAGro), Chilpancingo de los Bravo, 
Guerrero, México.
(3)Laboratorio de Epigenética del Cáncer, Facultad de Ciencias Químico 
Biológicas, Universidad Autónoma de Guerrero (UAGro), Chilpancingo de los Bravo, 
Guerrero, México.
(4)Programa de Doctorado, Posgrado en Ciencias Biológicas, Unidad de Posgrado, 
Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México (UNAM), 04510, Mexico, México.
(5)Posgrado en Ciencias Genómicas, Universidad Autónoma de la Ciudad de México, 
Mexico, México.
(6)Laboratorio de Cáncer Hormono Regulado, Instituto Nacional de Cancerología 
(INCan), 14080, Mexico, México.
(7)Instituto Nacional de Medicina Genómica (INMEGEN), 14610, Mexico, México.
(8)Laboratorio de Epigenética del Cáncer, Facultad de Ciencias Químico 
Biológicas, Universidad Autónoma de Guerrero (UAGro), Chilpancingo de los Bravo, 
Guerrero, México. dhernandez@uagro.mx.
(9)Laboratorio Genómica del Cáncer, Instituto Nacional de Medicina Genómica 
(INMEGEN), 14610, Mexico, México. ahidalgo@inmegen.gob.mx.

At the molecular level, triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is frequently 
categorized as PAM50 basal-like subtype, but despite the advances in molecular 
analyses, the clinical outcome for these subtypes is uncertain. Long non-coding 
RNAs (lncRNAs) are master regulators of genes involved in hallmarks of cancer, 
which makes them suitable biomarkers for breast cancer (BRCA) diagnosis and 
prognosis. Here, we evaluated the regulatory role of lncRNA SOX9-AS1 in these 
subtypes. Using the BRCA-TCGA cohort, we observed that SOX9-AS1 was 
significantly overexpressed in basal-like and TNBC in comparison with other BRCA 
subtypes. Survival analyzes showed that SOX9-AS1 overexpression was associated 
with a favorable prognosis in TNBC and basal-like patients. To study the 
functions of SOX9-AS1, we determined the expression levels in a panel of nine 
BRCA cell lines finding increased levels in MDA-MB-468 and HCC1187 TNBC. Using 
subcellular fractionation in these cell lines, we ascertained that SOX9-AS1 was 
located in the cytoplasmic compartment. In addition, we performed SOX9-AS1 gene 
silencing using two short-harping constructs, which were transfected in both 
cell models and performed a genome-wide RNA-seq analysis. Data showed that 351 
lncRNAs and 740 mRNAs were differentially expressed in MDA-MB-468 while 56 
lncRNAs and 100 mRNAs were modulated in HCC1187 cells (Log2FC < - 1.5 and > 1.5, 
p.adj value < 0.05). Pathway analysis revealed that the protein-encoding genes 
potentially regulate lipid metabolic reprogramming, and epithelial-mesenchymal 
transition (EMT). Expression of lipid metabolic-related genes LIPE, REEP6, 
GABRE, FBP1, SCD1, UGT2B11, APOC1 was confirmed by RT-qPCR. Functional analysis 
demonstrated that the knockdown of SOX9-AS1 increases the triglyceride 
synthesis, cell migration and invasion in both two TNBC cell lines. In 
conclusion, high SOX9-AS1 expression predicts an improved clinical course in 
patients, while the loss of SOX9-AS1 expression enhances the aggressiveness of 
TNBC cells.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-024-51947-2
PMCID: PMC10794186
PMID: 38233470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


48. Analyst. 2024 Feb 12;149(4):1250-1261. doi: 10.1039/d3an02032k.

All-in-one detection of breast cancer-derived exosomal miRNA on a pen-based 
paper chip.

Guo S(1), Xie H(2), Zhao X(2), He H(3), Feng X(2), Li Y(2), Liu BF(2), Chen 
P(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Guangdong Second Provincial General Hospital, 
Guangzhou, Guangdong 510317, China.
(2)The Key Laboratory for Biomedical Photonics of MOE at Wuhan National 
Laboratory for Optoelectronics-Hubei Bioinformatics & Molecular Imaging Key 
Laboratory, Systems Biology Theme, Department of Biomedical Engineering, College 
of Life Science and Technology, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, 
Wuhan, 430074, China. gwchenpeng@mail.hust.edu.cn.
(3)Sino-US Telemed (Wuhan) Co., Ltd, China.

Exosomal microRNAs (miRNAs) play a pivotal role in intercellular communication, 
regulating gene expression in target cells, and hold significant promise as 
cancer biomarkers for early detection and screening. However, achieving precise 
and viable detection of exosomal miRNAs remains a challenge. This paper proposes 
an all-in-one detection strategy for breast cancer-derived exosomal miRNA-21 on 
a pen-based paper chip (PPC). The PPC is constructed using a modified automatic 
pen and lateral flow assay (LFA), which results in a cost-effective fabrication 
process. The user only needs to add the sample and trigger the top of the 
self-contained PPC after a period of time to complete the entire detection 
process. To enhance the sensitivity of exosomal miRNA testing, an enzyme-free 
catalyzed hairpin assembly (CHA) is further introduced, enabling highly 
sensitive detection of miRNA-21 with a limit of detection (LOD) of 25 fmol. 
Additionally, the detection of miRNAs in differentially-expressed cells and 
clinical samples has also been successfully achieved with high specificity. 
Overall, the proposed PPC provides an effective tool for detecting early cancer, 
monitoring diseases, and establishing point of care testing (POCT).

DOI: 10.1039/d3an02032k
PMID: 38225883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Taiwan J Obstet Gynecol. 2024 Jan;63(1):46-56. doi: 10.1016/j.tjog.2023.09.019.

LINC01234 promoted malignant behaviors of breast cancer cells via 
hsa-miR-30c-2-3p/CCT4/mTOR signaling pathway.

Tang C(1), Li C(2), Chen C(2), Chen T(3), Zhu J(2), Sun M(4), Wang P(5), Han 
C(6).

Author information:
(1)Suzhou Medical College of Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, 215123, China; 
Department of Breast Surgery, Xuzhou Central Hospital, Postgraduate Workstation 
of Soochow University Xuzhou, Jiangsu, 221009, China.
(2)Department of Breast Surgery, Xuzhou Central Hospital, Jiangsu, 221009, 
China.
(3)The Xuzhou Clinical College of Xuzhou Medical University, Jiangsu, 221009, 
China.
(4)Department of Breast Surgery, Xuzhou Central Hospital, Jiangsu, 221009, 
China. Electronic address: 645396517@qq.com.
(5)Department of Breast Surgery, Xuzhou Central Hospital, Jiangsu, 221009, 
China. Electronic address: 1349533289@qq.com.
(6)Suzhou Medical College of Soochow University, Suzhou, Jiangsu, 215123, China; 
Department of Urology, Xuzhou Central Hospital, Xuzhou, Jiangsu, 221009, China; 
Department of Urology, Xuzhou Clinical School of Xuzhou Medical University, 
Jiangsu, 221009, China; Department of Urology, Heilongjiang Provincial Hospital, 
Heilongjiang, 150036, China; College of Life Sciences, Jiangsu Normal 
University, Jiangsu, 221116, China. Electronic address: 
hanconghuixzsy1968@163.com.

OBJECTIVE: Despite continuous progress in treatment, recurrence and metastasis 
limit further improvement in the prognosis of breast cancer (BC) patients. Our 
aim was to search for a crucial prognostic biomarker of BC.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patient data were selected from The Cancer Genome Atlas 
(TCGA) and GTEx databases. Several online public databases, including Gene 
Expression Profiling Interactive Analysis (GEPIA), miRWalk, miRDB, and LncBase 
Predicted v.2, were used to identify potential upstream miRNAs and lncRNAs. 
These findings were validated through in vitro experiments.
RESULTS: A total of 1, 097 invasive BC samples and 572 normal breast tissues 
(including 113 samples from TCGA and 459 samples from GTEx) were collected for 
the study. CCT4 was not only significantly overexpressed in BC compared with 
normal breast tissues but also had important prognostic significance 
(P < 0.001). By intersecting miRWalk and miRDB and conducting correlation 
analysis, hsa-miR-30c-2-3p was identified as the most probable upstream miRNA of 
CCT4. Following an extensive assessment that included survival analysis, 
correlation analysis, and common binding-site prediction, LINC01234 was chosen 
as the most likely upstream lncRNA. In vitro experiments showed that 
LINC01234-siRNA inhibited the proliferation, invasion, and migration abilities 
of BC cells. Western blot analysis further confirmed that LINC01234 promoted 
malignant behaviors of BC cells via the CCT4/mTOR signaling pathway.
CONCLUSION: The LINC01234/hsa-miR-30c-2-3p/CCT4/mTOR axis was identified as a 
potential ceRNA regulatory mechanism in BC. These findings established the 
foundation for systematically unveiling the pathological mechanisms of BC and 
provided new insights for targeted therapy of BC patients.

Copyright © 2023. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjog.2023.09.019
PMID: 38216268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests.


50. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2024 Apr;204(3):475-484. doi: 
10.1007/s10549-023-07208-3. Epub 2024 Jan 8.

Integrated analysis of diverse cancer types reveals a breast cancer-specific 
serum miRNA biomarker through relative expression orderings analysis.

Ma L(1), Gao Y(1), Huo Y(1), Tian T(2), Hong G(3), Li H(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health and Health Management, Gannan Medical University, 
Ganzhou, 341000, China.
(2)School of Medical Information Engineering, Gannan Medical University, 
Ganzhou, 341000, China.
(3)School of Medical Information Engineering, Gannan Medical University, 
Ganzhou, 341000, China. hongguini08@gmail.com.
(4)School of Medical Information Engineering, Gannan Medical University, 
Ganzhou, 341000, China. biomantis_lhd@163.com.

PURPOSE: Serum microRNA (miRNA) holds great potential as a non-invasive 
biomarker for diagnosing breast cancer (BrC). However, most diagnostic models 
rely on the absolute expression levels of miRNAs, which are susceptible to batch 
effects and challenging for clinical transformation. Furthermore, current 
studies on liquid biopsy diagnostic biomarkers for BrC mainly focus on 
distinguishing BrC patients from healthy controls, needing more specificity 
assessment.
METHODS: We collected a large number of miRNA expression data involving 8465 
samples from GEO, including 13 different cancer types and non-cancer controls. 
Based on the relative expression orderings (REOs) of miRNAs within each sample, 
we applied the greedy, LASSO multiple linear regression, and random forest 
algorithms to identify a qualitative biomarker specific to BrC by comparing BrC 
samples to samples of other cancers as controls.
RESULTS: We developed a BrC-specific biomarker called 7-miRPairs, consisting of 
seven miRNA pairs. It demonstrated comparable classification performance in our 
analyzed machine learning algorithms while requiring fewer miRNA pairs, 
accurately distinguishing BrC from 12 other cancer types. The diagnostic 
performance of 7-miRPairs was favorable in the training set (accuracy = 98.47%, 
specificity = 98.14%, sensitivity = 99.25%), and similar results were obtained 
in the test set (accuracy = 97.22%, specificity = 96.87%, sensitivity = 98.02%). 
KEGG pathway enrichment analysis of the 11 miRNAs within the 7-miRPairs revealed 
significant enrichment of target mRNAs in pathways associated with BrC.
CONCLUSION: Our study provides evidence that utilizing serum miRNA pairs can 
offer significant advantages for BrC-specific diagnosis in clinical practice by 
directly comparing serum samples with BrC to other cancer types.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-023-07208-3
PMCID: PMC10959809
PMID: 38191685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no relevant financial or 
non-financial interests to disclose.


Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.